[Scene: The Old Quay | Early Evening — Town Meeting]

[Visual: Lanterns strung along the piers; tarps and patched stalls glow like stitched constellations. The harbor is a sheet of dark glass, reflecting a softened sunset. Small projector light sweeps across a weathered screen lashed to a post.]

[Sound: Low murmur of the crowd, a gull calling once, the distant clank of boat rigging.]

You stand at the edge of the quay with your notebook tucked under your arm, the same pen from last night now warm between your fingers. The town feels like a held breath that everyone is willing to let out together. Faces you know—neighbors, fishers, schoolteachers, the municipal aides—lean forward on makeshift benches and onto crates. Children balance on pier rails, their bare feet swinging.

Dr. Kavir Singh moves beside you, his presence like a calm behind-the-scenes tide.

Dr. Kavir Singh: "Your slides are ready, Aria. The sensor data's been simplified for the board—no one gets lost in the math. You've got everything you need."

You nod, feeling the familiar accordion of nerves tighten and expand into something steadier—purpose, not panic. You slide open the first slide: a map with color gradations of projected inundation, then a sequence that alternates photos of young mangroves and mockups of modular blocks. The projector throws halos on the faces in the crowd.

You begin without theatrics.

Aria Navarro: "Thank you for coming. Tonight is not about choosing sides between nature and engineering. It's about choosing how we keep this place—the people in it, the work we do, and the stories our children will inherit."

You let the maps speak for the urgency, then stitch them into story: what the sensors have shown, what volunteers in the mangrove pilot reported, what the preliminary models suggest for modular defenses. Your voice steady, you bring numbers and voices together.

You (narration): The data lines up like tide marks—some climbs slow, some come fast. You show where a seawall could blunt the next few years of loss and where a mangrove corridor could slow erosion and revive fish nurseries in a decade. You say both things out loud because you believe both can be true; because you want the town to hear possibility, not impossible absolutes.

[Visual: Sora steps up to the lip of the crowd, hands painted faintly green from earlier planting.]

Sora Lin: "Maps and models are tools—but we know these waters. We know the young saplings already held a stretch of shore after the April surge. When people pick up their planting shovels, they become the defense. That work keeps culture alive—our elders' stories, our kids' learning—it's not just carbon sequestration. It's dignity."

Mateo Hale, leaning on a crate with his multi-tool jangling, shakes his head the fraction of an inch that means he wants precision.

Mateo: "Dignity doesn't put boards under a roof. It doesn't flip a stove back on. We can assemble modular levees fast, deploy them where sensors say they'll matter, and get families breathing again after a storm. That's how we buy time and leverage municipal resources."

The room hums. Elena, standing near the front with a small bundle at her feet, folds her arms and watches you like she has watched you since childhood—tracking what you do as if every small action were an offering.

Elena Navarro: "Both of you speak truths. When my mother lost the stall in '98 she rebuilt because neighbors showed up with nails and hot tea. But if a wall keeps the water off this quay next month, it keeps my trade. What I want is safety and the chance to keep doing this job."

You feel the tug of all three perspectives inside you—Mateo's measure, Sora's heartbeat, Elena's tether to livelihood. You look at Mayor Cortez; she is watching you with a civic patience that has the weight of budgets and votes and also the thin hopeful curl of someone who remembers being a child on these docks.

Mayor Isla Cortez: "Dr. Singh, Jun—thank you for the briefing. Aria, you've put options on the table. We need a direction tonight. The council will vote on an immediate course of action. I want your recommendation. What do you propose we prioritize first?"

Your throat tightens with the inevitiveness of the moment. This is what you prepared for—the page you wrote last night about "tide-keepers" made literal by the town's need to decide. The crowd leans in; even the gulls seem to pause their calls.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Breathe and anchor yourself with the notebook") -> Reaction: "You place your palm over the familiar cover, feeling the texture of your notes, centering the arguments into a single list in your head." || Choice B ("Scan the faces—land on Mateo first") -> Reaction: "Your gaze finds Mateo: his jaw set, hands stained with grease. You feel the steady pull toward pragmatic measures." || Choice C ("Look for Sora's eye") -> Reaction: "Sora meets your gaze with a bright, open expression—hope braided in urgency. The sight steadies you in a different way."]

You gather the different threads—science, memory, practicality—and then you let them sit in the warm hush that follows the mayor's question.

Mateo steps forward, and the engineering syllables come fast and clean.

Mateo: "If there's anything we learned from the coastal grid failures up north, it's that delays cost lives. We can design adaptive panels that sit low and fold up when salvage boats need to pass; they can be linked to our sensors. Deployments can start within weeks if the council commits to municipal backing. I'm offering a route that's measurable and quick."

Sora interrupts gently but passionately.

Sora: "And what happens ten years from now if every council does what Mateo says? We tinker, we patch, then we watch the shore still slip away because the sediments that hold the land weren't invested in. Mangroves are slow—they're also cumulative. They change storms. They feed fish. They teach our kids to care. They don't just protect buildings; they protect the way we live."

Aria Navarro: "Both are needed. We can—and should—test short-term deployments in vulnerable corridors while accelerating community restoration where it promises long-term gains. But a hybrid without clear governance is just more work for volunteers and more expense for the town."

Dr. Kavir Singh interjects with a scientist's calm.

Dr. Kavir Singh: "The models show diminishing returns if we rely on one approach alone. Hybrid strategies reduce peak risk and increase ecological function over time. But governance is key. Whose responsibility will maintenance be? Who will fund it? Those questions determine whether a hybrid succeeds or collapses into competing projects."

Mayor Cortez folds her hands and looks at the crowd as if scanning for an undercurrent. The light from the lanterns touches her sleeve; the sash of office is a ribbon that suddenly feels like a tether to many futures.

Mayor Isla Cortez: "This council can't promise open-ended funds. We need something that protects people now and also isn't so rigid that it steals the town's ability to steer itself later. Aria—your voice is the one we've been listening to tonight. Help us frame this so we can vote with purpose."

You feel the warmth of the quay—lanterns, bodies, the faint citrus scent from Elena's bundle mixing with diesel and salt—as if the town itself bends its attention toward you. You could recommend a hard line for immediate relief. You could recommend patient, community-driven restoration. Or you could try to weave something between the two.

You remember nights of calibrating sensors with Jun's laugh in your ear, mornings wading in mud with Sora planting a sapling that stubbornly refused to stand straight, and long hours measuring stress points on Mateo's mockups as he argued the math of survivability. Your heart stutters between the two: devotion to results and devotion to belonging.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Recall Elena's pragmatic plea") -> Reaction: "You hear Elena's voice in your head—'Keep your strength'—and you feel the town's practical needs press gently against your choices." || Choice B ("Picture the sapling from Sora's planting") -> Reaction: "A small green shoot rises in your memory, fragile and fierce. You imagine rows of them—slow victories that swell over seasons."]

You inhale the harbor air, humid and salt-steeped, and feel the swell of possibility: this meeting could lock the town into a short-term fix, or it could open a path that lets people steward their future. The optimism in the room is tangible—neighbors prepared to stand for one another, engineers ready to move their machines, volunteers with muddy boots at the ready.

Mayor Cortez's gaze narrows, then softens. The lantern light catches in her eyes.

Mayor Isla Cortez: "Aria Navarro—this is your moment to frame the question so the council can act. Tell us, in a sentence for the record:"

The quay quiets as if someone pressed a hand across the town's chest. Everything you've built—the slides, the community voices, the nights—has come to this hinge. The decision will not only set policy; it could reroute loyalties, reshape alliances, and influence who you grow close to as you carry this work forward.

You feel the swell in your chest—the same tide that pulled you home years ago—ready to push outward again.

[Music: Warm swell of strings, hopeful and resolute]

You open your mouth.

[Page-Turn Moment]
There are answers you can quantify—cost per meter, months to deploy, sapling survival rates—and there are answers that require trust: trust that the town will maintain a pilot, trust that funding will follow a carefully documented success, trust that people will choose to stay and stake their lives on a restored shore. This moment is less about total certainty and more about the kind of future you want to invite.

You can feel the town leaning toward action. It is waiting for you to anchor the choice with words that will let them move together.

{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "You must frame the town's immediate approach and steer the official vote.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We prioritize deployable adaptive infrastructure—seawalls and modular levees—so we buy time and protect homes.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We commit to community-led ecological restoration—massive mangrove and seagrass planting—so we build long-term resilience.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We launch a hybrid pilot: small adaptive modules plus accelerated restoration, decided by a community council.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}