[Scene: Tideward Promenade | Morning]
[Visual: Pale light through lingering sea mist; bunting flutters along patched railings]
[Sound: Distant gulls, a gullhorn's low moan, the slap of waves against improvised levees]
[Music: Low, steady ostinato — hopeful, patient]

Narration:
You leave the Beacon's lamplight with the ledger of last night's commitments still warm in your palm. The promenade smells of brine and wet wood; a string of solar lanterns bobs in the breeze, stubbornly amber. A week has passed like slow sediment—plans set, tools traded, promises repeated—but the announcement from HelioCorp hangs like a new tide line: public forum at the Glass Atrium today. Dr. Rowan Hale will speak.

You find Elias leaning on a salvaged railing, the camera at his side, sunlight catching the blond tips of his hair. He notices you before you reach him and grins, the cupped optimism that has become his stance against the sea.

Elias: "You made it. Thought maybe you'd be buried in tide maps and coffee by now."

Aiko Mori: "You know me—coffee, then charts. What are you thinking? Charge in with a banner?"

Elias: (half laugh) "Maybe. Or at least let everyone hear what the streets know. Those models? Pretty as glass. The people who built them—do they walk these boards at low tide? Do they know Mina's soup schedule? It's performative if it's not lived."

Narration:
He pushes off the rail and falls into step with you. The promenade is a patchwork of the neighborhood's hands—boards painted with slogans, a vertical herb rack, a kid's kite tangled in a lamppost. The contrast between this world and the Atrium's clean promises is a physical ache in your chest, but it sharpens your resolve rather than dulls it.

Aiko Mori: "I don't want to start a fight, Elias. I want them to see what we can do—and what we'd lose if things get decided for us."

Elias: "So we make them see. Loudly, if we must. I can rally people to stand on the plaza, hand out leaflets—"

Aiko Mori: "No theatrics. Facts, transparent models, a clear ask for shared governance. If they can show tech that actually reduces risk, we'll say so. But we don't sign away people's homes on applause."

Narration:
Elias's jaw softens. He nods, the quick shift from insurgent heat to loyal steadiness that you know so well.

Elias: "Okay. Calm fire. But if they dodge questions, you'll let me loose, right?"

Aiko Mori: (with a small, tired smile) "If they dodge, you'll let me do the talking. Agreed."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Let Elias lead the crowd outside the Atrium") -> Reaction: "Elias brightens, slapping your shoulder. 'I'll make noise they can't ignore,' he promises, already imagining placards. You feel the surge of solidarity like a warm tide." || Choice B ("Stick to the plan: a measured, fact-based presentation") -> Reaction: "You close your notebook and smooth the corners. 'We bring the ledger,' you say. It steadies you. Facts last longer than protest chants—sometimes."]


[Scene: HelioCorp Glass Atrium | Afternoon]
[Visual: Glass and polished alloy—curated vertical gardens behind transparent barriers]
[Sound: Murmurs; the soft clicks of devices; an engineered hush]
[Music: Clean piano with soft strings — earnest, aspirational]

Narration:
The atrium is all light and geometry. The air tastes faintly of ozone and sanitized ambition. People gather in clusters—policy types in muted suits, journalists with small recorders, neighbors in patched jackets looking slightly out of their element. You feel the difference physically: the promenade's rough breath traded for conditioned, climate-controlled air.

A polished host introduces Dr. Rowan Hale. He steps forward like a practiced tide—precise, composed. When he smiles it is a small, efficient arc; when he speaks, his voice settles the air as if calibrating it.

Dr. Rowan Hale: "Thank you for coming. We are at a moment where decisive engineering can buy us time. Our modular Sea-Shield arrays pair with targeted cloud-seeding to blunt storm surges and protect critical infrastructure. Imagine neighborhoods with the time to evacuate, with vital routes held steady."

Narration:
A hologram blooms above the stage: sleek panels rising like ribs against a rendered coastline, animated arrows showing diverted surges and cooled clouds. The models gleam; the atrium reflects them into kaleidoscopic patterns. You can't deny the elegance of the visuals—the kind of certainty images give people when words alone do not.

Mina sits near the back, fingers knotting a napkin. Her face is a study in careful attention: admiration, worry, and something like longing. You catch Sora at the edge of the crowd, her shawl folded around her shoulders, mouth a thin line. Rafi ducks low, microphone guarded like a fishing net.

Rafi: (under his breath) "Ask to see the contract language. Don't let the model be the only thing they sell."

Aiko Mori: "I will. There are questions about data governance I need answered. Who controls what sensors see. Who profits when the model is framed as public safety."

Narration:
Rowan moves through benefits and case studies; applause rises like measured waves. He answers a few friendly questions, his tone patient. Then the floor opens. Hands raise; voices sharpen.

Elias presses a palm to your arm. He is waiting for permission to be louder than the atrium allows.

Elias: "If they get away with vague governance, it's not help—it's takeover."

Aiko Mori: "We keep it to the point. One ask at a time."

Rowan: (smiling) "Questions?"

Audience Member: "Will HelioCorp ever require neighborhoods to evacuate permanently to install infrastructure?"

Dr. Rowan Hale: "We do not seek displacement. Our goal is to shore up communities—"

Rafi: (leaning to you, quick) "Don't take his first sentence at face value. There's a clause—'temporary measures' that can be renewed. It can allow extended control."

Aiko Mori: "Then show the clause. Let us read the governance terms—transparent, right now."

Narration:
The host hesitates; the stage staff exchange a brief, orchestrated look. The polite choreography of questions returns, but your voice is warm and steady when you speak.

Aiko Mori: "If you're offering infrastructure as public service, we need to know what oversight looks like. Who has veto power? Will data be public? Will repair decisions be local?"

Dr. Rowan Hale: (eyes cool but not closed) "We're prepared to negotiate oversight. We have models showing rapid deployment; we also have frameworks for partnership—"

Elias: (under his breath) "Framework is corporate for 'we decide.'"

Aiko Mori: "Then let's see the framework. Now."

Narration:
A hush follows; cameras swivel. Rowan's expression is complex—calm, practiced, but not unreadable. For a sliver of a moment you sense personal stakes sharpen behind that composure. He steps off his rehearsed script.

Dr. Rowan Hale: "I understand skepticism. I lost a neighborhood once. I am committed to saving lives. Let us open our documents to an independent review."

Rafi: (whispering, urgent) "Independent can mean a vendor they choose."

Aiko Mori: "We will agree to a review only if it includes: community-appointed auditors, full public access to sensor data, and legally binding clauses preventing indefinite displacement."

Dr. Rowan Hale: (slow nod) "Bring the language to our legal team. We'll set a meeting."

Narration:
The crowd exhales—muted approval, the kind that tastes like a partial promise. Mina's shoulders tremble; Sora's eyes are wet as the late sun through the glass. The atrium feels slightly less clinical now—human voices bending the shape of an engineered answer.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Stand up and request immediate public release of the proposal") -> Reaction: "You rise, heart steady. 'We want the proposal online, now,' you say. Cameras pivot. Some in the crowd applaud; HelioCorp staff exchange brisk looks. You feel the weight of insistence, like a rope pulling at a tidewall." || Choice B ("Hold the request for the neighborhood meeting—avoid a public escalation") -> Reaction: "You keep your hands folded and lower your voice. 'We'll review this with the Beacon,' you say. Elias's jaw tightens, but you see Mina relax slightly. The action is slower, but the promise feels more anchored."]


[Scene: Subbasement Data Lab | Early Evening]
[Visual: Humming servers, neon tidal models on monitors, damp concrete walls]
[Sound: Low electrical hum, the occasional ping of data packets]
[Music: Quiet rhythmic synth — investigative, hopeful]

Narration:
After the forum, Rafi walks you into a rented subbasement lab he sometimes borrows for digging through redacted documents. The air is cool, metallic; the lights are harsh and honest. On a monitor, HelioCorp's public pitch loops in a bright, optimistic rhythm while a torrent of legal text scrolls in a separate window.

Rafi: "They were elegant up there. But elegance doesn't mean they're harmless."

Aiko Mori: "Show me."

Narration:
He ties into the public repository and—using a contact's credentials and some old favors—pulls a redline version of the partnership draft. The clauses are densely packed, legalese like barnacles on a hull. Rafi highlights lines in quick strokes.

Rafi: "See this—'temporary measures to secure infrastructure.' Then this one—'exclusive service rights for a period of ten years, subject to renewal.' And this—'relocation assistance subject to operational necessity.'"

Aiko Mori: (reading, throat tight) "Relocation framed as assistance. Exclusive service rights—so they become gatekeepers for repairs and data."

Rafi: "There's an escape hatch where 'operational necessity' is defined by the provider. They don't leave much room for community veto."

Narration:
Your fingers curl on the edge of the table. The lab's LEDs cast your shadow long and sharp across the concrete. Yet beneath the alarm, hope refracts. Rowan had offered negotiation, had invited community-appointed auditors. There is a door here, slotted and precise. You can wedge something useful into it.

Aiko Mori: "We can make the acceptance conditional. Oblige public data, immediate community auditing, and a cap on exclusivity with enforceable sunset clauses."

Rafi: (a small, dry laugh) "You're describing legal scaffolding. That could work. Or they can package 'sunset' as a renewable option and call it a success."

Narration:
You think of Mina in the atrium—her conflicted face—and of Elias, ready to pounce. You think of the Beacon's ledger, the slow sediment of trust. There's an architecture to this decision: one path accepts rapid deployment with concessions; one path is slow and grassroots; the middle asks for enforceable transparency.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Draft a public amendment demanding immediate open data and community auditors") -> Reaction: "You start typing, each clause deliberate. The outline feels like organized conviction. Rafi watches, skeptical and perhaps secretly relieved. You feel the first convincing sentence settle into place." || Choice B ("Hold the proof close for the Beacon meeting—present the legal concerns as a private briefing") -> Reaction: "You save the files and close the window. Keeping it close feels protective; it gives you time to craft the case without HelioCorp or the media shaping the narrative. Rafi nods—this is how stories are preserved, he says."]


[Scene: Old Beacon | Night]
[Visual: Lantern light washing over patched maps; people clustered in tired, determined huddles]
[Sound: Low voices, the faint crackle of a small heater, the tide in the distance]
[Music: Warm strings under a steady percussion — communal, resolute]

Narration:
The Beacon holds its circle again, the community's faces folded into lamplight. Mina cooks in a corner, her movements deliberate; Sora sits with the old walking stick across her knees, listening. The documents and the choices form a new topography on the floor between you.

Mina: "They looked so sure. They showed drawings that made me imagine less fear. But Rafi found words in their draft that sounded like home could be an 'operational necessity' later."

Aiko Mori: "Rowan opened a door to negotiation. We can demand community auditors, public sensor data, and caps on exclusivity. We can push for legal clauses with sunsets and enforcement."

Sora: (soft) "There is a way to build that keeps the stories. There is also a way that sweeps stories away in tidy boxes. Which will hold when the worst comes? That is what matters."

Elias: (leaning forward, resolute) "They offer speed. We don't have months to test everything. People are losing roofs today. We can fight for stricter terms later, but if we can get the Sea-Shields up sooner, that's lives saved."

Aiko Mori: "Speed without safeguards is a different kind of harm. And refusing help doesn't guarantee outcomes either. This is not a single moral failure—it's a calculus of risk and care."

Narration:
The room vibrates with the calculus. Arguments are not weapons here but tools—carefully passed and sometimes clumsy. Hope threads through every voice: hope that infrastructure saves someone’s life, hope that communities keep their agency, hope that a compromise can be honest and binding.

Rafi: "If we take that middle route—a public, open-data pilot with community oversight—we might force HelioCorp to prove their good faith or expose their teeth. If they refuse, that tells everyone what they're about."

Mina: (voice small, honest) "I don't want to lose the gardens because a company needs access or because they decide to move us 'for safety.' But I also don't want to see another winter washed away."

Narration:
You look at each face—the weary farmer, the teenager with paint on his arms, Mina stirring a steady pot—and you measure the ledger again. Your notebook is closed in your lap. You feel the weight of being someone who translates models into promises, who names and tests contingencies. The choice is not between certainty and despair but between forms of action that each carry their own moral contour.

A rising clarity settles in you. The arousal that began as steady communal resolve at the Beacon has sharpened through the atrium and the lab into a focused decision point. It's not panic; it's insistence.

Aiko Mori: "We have three paths that fit what we've learned. We can negotiate a conditional partnership, refusing to be silenced on governance. We can refuse them and double down on community resilience. Or we can propose an open-data, community-led pilot with strict oversight."

Narration:
You say the words aloud and they feel like ledger entries—clear, consequential. The room leans forward, trusting the process you've convened, waiting for the moral architecture you will choose to place between the sea and the people.

[Decision Point]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How do I respond to Rowan’s public offer and the neighborhood’s need?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We negotiate a conditional partnership with HelioCorp.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We refuse and double down on community resilience.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We propose a hybrid: open-data pilot with strict community oversight.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}