[Scene: Docks | Morning — First Deployment]
[Visual: Corporate barges bristling with modular rolls of biotech mats; gray cranes lowering algae-wrapped scaffolds to the water]
[Sound: Hydraulic hisses, metallic thunks, the distant gulls drowned under machinery]
[Music: Percussive, urgent strings — a heartbeat pressed tight]

You stand at the edge of Low Street, salt on the collar of your coat, watching the company move through your town like a new tide. Trucks with corporate logos roll past with a practiced hush. Men and women in hydrophobic suits work with efficient choreography: unfurl, anchor, seed. The smell is a sharp mix of iodine and that faint, sterile tang of laboratory cleaners — progress perfumed to be palatable.

Aiko Navarro: "Is this... the whole plan?" (You force your voice steady; it sounds smaller under the cranes.)

Dr. Selene Park: "This is the deployment phase," Dr. Park replies crisply, her AR spectacles reflecting a matrix of metrics. "Engineered algae barriers and modular mats. They reduce surge, reestablish sediment trapping, and can be scaled city-by-city. Jobs, protection, measurable outcomes."

Her words are flat with the confidence of someone who has a formula for everything. The crowd around you — fishers, market vendors, volunteers with Tala's armbands — looks at the rigs like a miracle and a threat braided into one.

Mateo Ríos steps beside you, blueprints rolled under his arm. He watches the operation with the same analytical calm he wore through every meeting, but there is a tremor at the corner of his mouth you know means he's trying to hold two truths at once.

Mateo Ríos: "They've cleared the procurement," he says. "Council signed. Relief funds are coming through — wages for local crews, temporary contracts. It will move faster than we imagined."

You want to say the name of every person who will be affected in ways a spreadsheet can't hold. Instead you watch a crew clip a mat into place and feel your stomach flip when it seals against the sill of a familiar pier.

Dr. Selene Park: (smiling, persuasive) "We can retrofit some local subcontractors into our teams. Training modules are ready. I understand the need for involvement — community integration has a clear return on compliance and longevity."

Tala, standing with her arms folded and mouth set, answers before you can: "Community integration doesn't mean co-optation. We don't want our knowledge translated into a checkbox."

Dr. Park's smile doesn't change; her eyes do something small and unreadable.

Dr. Selene Park: "I expected resistance. Inclusion is part of the pilot parameters, Ms. Kumari."

Tala: "Inclusion is listening, not footnotes."

You feel the room tilt. The deployment is here — real wages, real equipment, the market already clearing away the worst damage of last week's floods — and yet the way it arrives feels like a decision being enforced rather than shared. Your chest is tight with the knowledge that people with immediate needs will take immediate help even when it compromises long-term relationships.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Walk the line with the deployment crew") -> Reaction: "You thread between crates and engineers, inspecting anchors and asking technical questions. The crew notes your presence with cautious respect; Dr. Park offers a quick schematic to reassure you." || Choice B ("Go find Ivy and the market teams") -> Reaction: "You push toward the market where vendors are counting new pay envelopes. Ivy flags you down, her hands already stained from moving stock; gratitude and worry flicker across her face."]


[Scene: Markets | Afternoon — The First Payroll]
[Visual: Colorful tarps flapping; new payroll vans unloading envelopes and branded gear; people clustered under awnings]
[Sound: Coins and paper counting, murmured thanks, a radio with a public-address update from City Hall]
[Music: A strained, hopeful piano motif that refuses to settle]

The market smells like fish and frying oil and, now, the thin sweetness of packaged relief. For the first time in weeks, stalls that had been shuttered are open. People you know — faces mapped in your memory — handle cash that is both a balm and a summons. Ivy meets you at the entrance, sleeves rolled, hair in an unceremonious knot.

Ivy Navarro: (low, practical) "They paid the day crews already. Some of the older guys are out checking anchors. My shift got bumped up — they promised a bonus if the installs finish by sundown."

Ivy's relief is blunt and immediate. You find yourself wanting to celebrate for her, for the market, for the damp heat easing at the edges. But Tala's voice from across the square pulls at your sleeve.

Tala Kumari: "They're replacing our volunteers with contractors who flew in this morning. The community training? We had two hours." (She looks at you, accusation wrapped in exhaustion.) "You saw that vote go down — you saw how fast they moved."

You stand between gratitude and betrayal like a tide that can't decide whether to come in. Mateo reaches you, fingers worrying the edge of a blueprint he can't smooth.

Mateo Ríos: (careful) "This buys time. It buys safety for families tonight. We can push for binding oversight clauses next week — financial audits, independent monitoring."

Tala snorts. "Next week? People are living with this today."

A sharp argument opens—no raised voices, but the kind of pressure that makes the air conductive. Every glance in the market is a tiny judgment. You feel the weight of the town in your palms: mouths to feed, children to keep dry, livelihoods balanced on new, unfamiliar structures.

Old Man Rohan arrives, slow and deliberate, leaning on his cane like a metronome.

Old Man Rohan: (soft) "They patch the hole with gates and call it saving the coast. But tides remember. Machines aren't memory. They don't carry the old maps of where the marsh held when the storm came."

Dr. Park, overhearing, comes closer with a practiced conciliatory angle.

Dr. Selene Park: "That's precisely why our algorithms include historical sediment models, Mr. Rohan. We calibrate with local data."

Rohan's eyes are flat as river stones.

Old Man Rohan: "Calibrations don't feel the taste of salt in your teeth."

Your throat tightens. The market thrum continues — people folding new money into old wallets — and you feel like the fulcrum that tipped the town into a sequence that will not go quietly.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Tala to meet later and strategize oversight") -> Reaction: "You say it softly, promising a meeting and a serious plan. Tala nods, wary but not dismissive; she files the promise like a fragile plank." || Choice B ("Sit with Ivy and help distribute the day's pay") -> Reaction: "You move through the crowd with Ivy, handing envelopes — faces soften around you, gratitude immediate and warm, the moral cost postponed by need."]


[Scene: Tidepark Research Greenhouse | Evening — Night Tests and a Breaking Alert]
[Visual: Translucent panels fogged from humidity; rows of bioluminescent vials glowing like cold stars; a modular mat half-unrolled on a concrete floor]
[Sound: Low hum of water pumps, distant echo of the harbor, an urgent electronic chime slicing the air]
[Music: High, insistent tremolo — a string scrape that claws upward]

You come to Tidepark because it's where the tech is alive in a way the docks are not. Here the mats are catalogued, samples lined in pencil-marked trays. The air is thick with the smell of wet earth and something sweeter — nutrient slurries and engineered strains that glint unnaturally under LEDs. Mateo meets you in front of a workstation, fingers stained with gel.

Mateo Ríos: (quiet) "They've set up a local monitoring node tonight. We get hourly updates."

You almost relax at the thought. Monitoring is the thing that could make this less a takeover and more an accountable effort.

A message pings on the greenhouse's central screen. The tone is bright and minor; the words it brings are shaped like a shard.

Announcement (Broadcast): "ALERT — OUTCOME REPORT FROM PILOT SITE: UNEXPECTED OXYGEN FLUCTUATIONS IN ESTUARINE ZONE. INITIAL INDICATORS SUGGEST RAPID BIOMASS ACCUMULATION. FIELD TEAMS DEPLOYING. MORE INFO TO FOLLOW."

The words sit like a thrown stone in still water. The room goes colder, and you can hear, absurdly, the click of a distant boat engine.

Dr. Selene Park's jaw tightens once, an infinitesimal change that betrays the public calm she maintains.

Dr. Selene Park: (measured) "Pilot sites are statistically noisy. We anticipated anomalous blooms; contingency protocols are in place."

But the contingency she describes sounds like a list on a page, not like the faces of people in the market or the gulls circling a suddenly silent patch of bay. Your hands curl into fists you didn't know you were making.

Mateo Ríos: (voice rising) "Do we have the data stream? How soon until field teams have parameters? If oxygen dips near the marsh, the food web could shift in days. Rohan's right — memory matters. Systems like this can cascade."

You feel that cascade in your bones: a small technical failure, a report that blooms into a problem, a species lost like an unpaid debt. The greenhouse lights glare too white; the sound of pumps becomes a metronome for panic.

Tala arrives, breathless from running, eyes blazing.

Tala Kumari: "We need to hold them accountable now. No more rehearsed calm. People have to know what's at stake."

Ivy appears behind her, hands smudged, eyes big.

Ivy Navarro: "If that oxygen drops, the fishers will lose months of income. This was supposed to help."

Old Man Rohan stands bent by the entrance, silent for a moment as if listening to the air itself. Then he speaks, voice low and tremulous.

Old Man Rohan: "I've seen a bloom like that once, years ago. It swallowed the scallops whole. The tide came back empty."

The room narrows until it's only you and the facts and the way a single sentence can change the shape of a town. Your chest feels like someone has tied a rope around it and is pulling.

Dr. Selene Park: (transparent now, not a performance) "We will pause deployments in the affected area and run emergency diagnostics. Our teams are already on it."

Mateo looks at her, then at you.

Mateo Ríos: (frantic, pleading) "We need transparency. Open the data. Independent monitors — not just company reports."

Dr. Park's reply is a practiced shield.

Dr. Selene Park: "We will comply with municipal oversight. But premature alarm can cause more harm than measured response. Panic can ruin livelihoods as effectively as a bloom."

Her words land like a challenge. You feel the truth of both halves: alarm can spread like a contagion, but so can silence. The scale tilts under your hands — and you realize that the choice you made has already reshaped the rules of who gets to speak for the coast.

Your phone buzzes: a clip from a distant fishing community where the trial was sited. Grainy footage of water frothing, fish floating. A child's cry from the background. The image is not a statistic; it's an accusation.

You want to call out, to stop the machines, to demand every mat be rolled back, to take every pay envelope and shove it into the ocean. You want to thread a needle between immediate safety and a future that remembers its people.

Your breath comes fast. The greenhouse lights make the modular mat's surface look like a wound that refuses to close.

You find yourself thinking — with a cold, precise clarity — of the locket against your chest, of Rohan's maps, of the market's laughter. You wanted this to be a choice that held both care and reason. You wanted a plan that honored memory as much as metrics.

Instead, you have a town washing up on a new shore where decisions happen at the speed of contractual deadlines, and the first urgent message arrives like a verdict.

[Visual: Close-up on the greenhouse monitor — the alert pulses red; a map blinks with the affected site]
[Sound: The alert pings again, louder, like a bell in a hollow room]
[Music: Crescendo into a sharp, unresolved chord]

You stand at the center of a sudden, bright fracture. The deployment that saved people today might cost the marsh tomorrow. The air tastes metallic; your hands are cold.

You breathe in the damp greenhouse air and let the weight of it settle. The world beyond the glass is moving — rigs still dropping mats at the docks, payroll vans still circulating through the market — but inside, for the first time since the contract was signed, everything feels dangerously unfinished.

[Visual: The modular mat unfurls on the floor, glossy and alien, catching the greenhouse light like a wound]
[Music: A single sustained violin note that trembles and then thins out]

You look at Mateo. He looks at you. Tala and Ivy and Rohan are there, a constellation of needs and warnings. Dr. Park stands perfectly composed, the algorithms humming at her fingertips.

You know what will happen next: the Council will convene, public pressure will tighten, and media will scavenge for a frame that fits into either catastrophe or triumph. But for now, everything narrows to this one raw fact — the first report has broken, and it carries consequences you cannot fully account for.

Your palms feel damp. You press them together, as if to anchor yourself.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Tension note held, then cut]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 15
}