[Scene: The Beacon | Late Afternoon]

[Visual: The Beacon's glass facade fogged with damp breath; Edison bulbs cast a warm halo over a long folding table littered with blueprints, a laptop with a glowing spreadsheet, coffee cups, and a chipped ceramic bowl of Rosa's soup.]

[Sound: Low murmur of conversation, the clink of spoons, a distant gull. Outside, rain on the roof keeps time like a soft metronome.]

[Music: Gentle, rising strings — hopeful, quietly insistent.]

You push your palm flat against the grain of the table as you scan the spreadsheet—the neat columns of line items and the smaller, stubborn numbers that will decide what's possible this season. The Beacon smells of broth and wet wool; steam fogs your sensor reader before you tuck it back into its case. For a moment, the small sounds of the room—the marker cap clicking, Rosa humming as she ladles soup—settle the old tightness in your chest. This is work you know how to do: translate the sea into terms people can touch and fund.

Rosa sets down a steaming bowl in front of Hal and pats his back with flour-dusted fingers. "Eat, Hal. Then tell them why you think the pilings should have a foot deeper. Like you told my aunt." Her voice is light but insistent. A chair scrapes; Eli folds his arms and leans over the laptop, thumb scrolling through grant requirements.

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "If we prioritize the promenade scaffolding with the current match funds, we can get the contractor price locked in before winter. Mangroves take time to show return on shore protection; the raised promenade is a visible success we can show to the council."

You watch him—his jaw tight with the math, the way his fingers drum the edge of the trackpad when a number refuses to fit. He is steady, as he always is, and the evidence on his wristband—tide cycles and load readings—glows like a small promise on the screen.

Amara Vale (You): "Visible wins are important. They give people confidence. But we can't treat the promenade as a substitute for ecology. If we harden the shore now without the saplings and the sediment traps, we'll spend more on repairs later."

[Internal Monologue]
You feel the thread of the argument unwind inside you—engineering certainty vs. ecological patience. Both are right. Rightness here is not a thing to be hoarded; it's a thing to be braided. You imagine the seedlings you measured last month, tiny green spines in muddy water, and the raised planks you'd tested with Hal's group—both necessary, neither sufficient alone.

Harold 'Hal' Finnegan: "Back when the big storm took the old pier, we learned the same lesson twice. You shore it up, the waves find another weakness. We ought to account for maintenance every year—pay people to tend the mangroves, check the pilings, replace sensor batteries. That's recurring cost. Grants like to fund capital, not the steady, boring work that keeps systems alive."

Miriam folds her arms and narrows her eyes, voice threaded with urgency.

Miriam Santos: "And who's going to do that work? We can't rely on volunteers forever. People have rents and kids. We need stipends, training money, a clear maintenance line in the budget that pays local hands. Otherwise, we build and abandon it."

Rosa: "And let's put the community name on it. Plaques, workshops—let folks feel ownership. That helps with durability too."

The room hums; you can taste the argument like salt on your tongue—necessary, elemental. Eli meets Miriam's gaze and there's a soft give in his posture you wouldn't have noticed if you weren't listening for it.

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: (quiet) "I agree about stipends. If we carve a maintenance salary into the grant application, the numbers change—become harder to fit. We could phase it: start stipends for key roles now, and scale as matching funds arrive."

Amara Vale (You): "Phased stipends, then—priority for tidal technicians, a mangrove steward, a promenade custodian. We can train from within: Hal can run the technical workshops, Miriam can run recruitment. We make jobs out of upkeep."

[Sound: A soft collective exhale. Someone switches the radio quietly to a station playing low piano chords; the Beacon seems to lean toward agreement.]

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Advocate for a strong, detailed maintenance line in the presentation") -> Reaction: "You rise to the whiteboard, marker in hand, and sketch a simple timeline: planting seasons, stipend windows, battery replacement cycles. People nod as the calendar snaps into place." || Choice B ("Keep the initial presentation simpler—focus on big-ticket items and sell maintenance as a future need") -> Reaction: "You step back and circle the big items in the spreadsheet: promenade, seedlings, sensors. The group looks energized by the clear, ambitious headline numbers, but Hal's brow tightens as he taps his spoon against the bowl."]


Eli rubs the back of his neck. "Sensors are another sticking point. They let us prove the effectiveness of the mangroves—turbidity, shoreline accretion rates, stress on pilings—but they're not cheap. If we cut sensors now, we make it harder to argue for future funding."

Miriam: "But if we don't help businesses now, we lose storefronts—and the people who live over those storefronts. Retrofits keep families afloat. How much of this can be in one grant? We need separate lines: capital for scaffolding, capital for ecology, and microgrants for businesses."

You scroll the spreadsheet to a line that splits those possibilities—a three-column projection: Year 1 capital, Year 2 operations, Year 3 monitoring. Numbers look more like a map than a problem: each path marked in ink.

Amara Vale (You): "We're trying to thread three needs through a single needle: structural safety, ecological resilience, and economic stability. The grantors like neat packages. We make them a package—an integrated resilience program—but we highlight community employment and monitoring as non-negotiable."

Hal taps a spoon against the bowl and laughs, unexpectedly bright: "You always did have a way with framing, Amara. Make it a jobs program with impact metrics and they'll listen. Add in pictures of kids planting mangroves and the grant office melts."

Rosa: "Plus pie pictures," she says, smiling. "And people love pie."

[Music swells a little—a warm chord that suggests things are aligning.]

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "There's one more lever. If we pitch the promenade as modular—scaffolding that can be adapted as we learn—contractors get more comfort that they're not building something that will be obsolete. That lowers cost. Combine that with promises of a monitoring program, and we can make a strong case for both communities and engineers."

Miriam leans in, excitement pushing her hand to the table.

Miriam Santos: "And the microgrants—if we tie a percentage of contractor profits to a community fund, we can seed the business retrofits and stipends. It's a leverage play: capital plus conditional community fund."

[Internal Monologue]
You feel optimism building; each suggestion is a thread, and the table is slowly weaving them into a cloth. Hope is not naive here—it's deliberate. The Beacon's bulbs seem to brighten a little as you draft talking points in your head. You think of Old Man Tor's stories about communities that rebuilt together, of the time you watched seedlings hold a stretch of shore after a smaller squall. What feels different now is the number of hands in the room, not just the weight of one person's resolve.

Elias meets your eye and offers a small, crooked smile—an exchange that says more than any spreadsheet.

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "We can do a showpiece that's also scalable. Mangroves planted now in test beds, promenade sections raised as prototypes, sensors attached to those prototypes. Real data, and real jobs."

Hal: "And train a local team to do the maintenance checks monthly. Pay them. Make the work dignified, not desperation."

Rosa brings another pot of soup, steam creating small halos where the light hits it. She sets it down and adjusts a printout on the wall—a poster she made with kid photos and hand-painted mangroves.

Rosa: "We should rehearse the public pitch. People come for a story. They stay for a plan. Make the story about people's lives and the way the town looks next summer."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Practice the pitch with personal stories and photos first") -> Reaction: "You pull a chair into the light and begin to tell the story of the tide-logged ledger you kept after the last storm, how a neighbor's roof line acts like a map of choices. Faces soften; Rosa wipes her hands and nods, the public face already forming." || Choice B ("Lead with technical metrics and clear visuals — charts, timelines") -> Reaction: "You tap the laptop to enlarge a graph of sensor-read rates and projected sediment accretion. The numbers land like pebbles. Eli looks satisfied; Miriam looks thoughtful, turning the data into a strategy in her head."]


You feel the meeting converging. The spreadsheet is no longer a cold string of numbers but a proposal that breathes: jobs, monitoring, visible progress, and ecological care braided together. A clear line is forming—a recommendation that will be yours to present to the council: which of these focal points will the first round of funding emphasize?

Hal leans back, hand on his knee, eyes soft with the weight of years.

Harold 'Hal' Finnegan: "Whichever you pick, make the maintenance real. If there's one thing I've seen, it's that projects with ongoing funds and local caretakers survive. Otherwise they end up like the old pier—memories and splinters."

Miriam nods, fierce and steady.

Miriam Santos: "We need a narrative that doesn't sound like charity. It has to be investment in resilience and people. Someone in that council has to see both."

Eli watches you expectantly. The tide of the meeting is in your hands: the budget line you recommend will shape not only infrastructure, but who feels seen by the plan. You imagine the mangroves you measured last month, the raised test planks, the small business owner who fixes shutters at night—each a stake in the choice.

[Visual: Close-up on your hand hovering over the trackpad, the cursor blinking at three highlighted cells: 'Mangrove + Promenade', 'Small Business Grants/Retrofits', 'Microgrid Pilot'.]

[Music: A warm, sustained chord — hopeful, expectant.]

You inhale, the smell of broth and salt filling you, and feel the luminous responsibility the work has given you: not a burden but a ledge to stand on with others. Now is the moment to choose the focus that will carry this first effort into reality.

[Scene: The Beacon | The whiteboard waits under the hanging bulbs]

[DECISION POINT]
Which funding and focus do I recommend?

Options:
1) "Prioritize mangrove + promenade scaffolding" -> TARGET chapter_id: 6, TARGET chapter_index: 6
2) "Prioritize grants and retrofits for small businesses now" -> TARGET chapter_id: 13, TARGET chapter_index: 13
3) "Push for microgrid pilot requiring legal work" -> TARGET chapter_id: 13, TARGET chapter_index: 13

{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Which funding and focus do I recommend?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Prioritize mangrove + promenade scaffolding",
      "target_chapter_id": 6,
      "target_chapter_index": 6,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Prioritize grants and retrofits for small businesses now",
      "target_chapter_id": 13,
      "target_chapter_index": 13,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Push for microgrid pilot requiring legal work",
      "target_chapter_id": 13,
      "target_chapter_index": 13,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}