[Scene: Town Hall | Early Evening]
[Visual: Brick façade of Town Hall, banners fluttering on the plaza; a damp sheen on the steps from the afternoon drizzle]
[Sound: Distant gulls, muffled voices from the plaza, the creak of folding chairs being set up inside]
[Music: Warm, rising strings — hopeful and steady]

You push through the double doors and the smell of the town — coffee, damp paper, a faint whiff of salt carried in on everyone’s coats — rolls over you like a tide. The meeting room is full: neighbors clustered in folding chairs, Rosa's familiar apron shadowed in the back, Miriam pacing near the door with her megaphone slung like a bandolier, and a scattering of council aides riffling through briefing packets.

At the front, the dais sits elevated and impassive. A projector hums, casting a ghostly wash of slides on the wall: tide graphs, a map with color-coded zones, and — to one side — a render of a slick waterfront promenade. For a breath you feel all those earlier hands-on evenings in the Beacon folding into the room: the whiteboard ink, the sensor hum, the small argument over a sentence that meant everything. Your marker stroke from the cafe feels like a memory stitched into a seam.

[Visual: Close-up on your hands; the leather strap of a satchel brushes your wrist]
[Sound: A chair scrapes; a cough; the rustle of a protest flyer]

Miriam catches your eye and nods. Her teal hair is a bright slash of confidence; her fingers drum a rhythm you're learning translates as "now." Eli stands to your left, arms folded, expression neutral but present — a steady weight. Marco is in the front row, his tailored coat an island of polish; his attention on the projector makes him unreadable in the way of men who have rehearsed conviction.

You inhale, feeling the room like a lung, and remind yourself: this meeting is not a showdown to win alone. It's an invitation to fold in voices — engineering, ecology, livelihoods — into something the town can hold. Hope is not naive tonight; it's practical, rehearsed, and ready.

Eli leans in, voice low.
Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "Remember, keep it concrete. People come for answers that feel like they protect their nights. Start with the porch stories; they'll listen to the math after they feel seen."

You nod. There’s a small, encouraging smile in the corners of his eyes that steadies you.

Miriam elbows you gently, urgency coiled under warmth.
Miriam: "And don't forget the ask. Lay it out — who does what, and when. People need to know they can help, not just watch."

You feel the familiar weight of wanting to carry everything lift slightly. The room's hum becomes a kind of backing chorus: the town is a body and right now it is breathing with you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Take a slow breath and ground yourself") -> Reaction: "You close your eyes for a second, feeling the wood of the pew under your palm and the pulse at your wrist slow. The words in your head line up like plank boards: clear, steady, load-bearing." || Choice B ("Run through your opening line quietly with Eli") -> Reaction: "You whisper the first sentence — the one about preservation and responsibility — and Eli adjusts the cadence. It lands cleaner; you can feel the room responding before you speak."]

[Visual: The chamber settles as the Council Chair taps a gavel]
[Sound: The gavel's knock is crisp; murmurs fade]
[Music: Piano motif returns, a note of understated resolve]

Council Chair (off-screen): "Order. We'll begin. Ms. Vale, the floor is yours."

You step forward with the projector remote warm in your palm. The light hits the board behind you in a way that makes your shadow long, but the warmth of the room keeps the edges soft. You begin by saying what you promised yourself in the Beacon months ago: to hold Seabright's character while protecting it.

You: "Good evening. My name is Amara Vale. I grew up here — I know this town's porches and the people who keep them. Tonight I present a plan rooted in community-led adaptation: mangrove restoration, raised promenades, and modular retrofit strategies that we can implement with local labor and oversight."

You don't only speak numbers. You name neighbors: the baker on Pacific Lane who can't afford to close for another season, the fisher who measures the tides like clockwork, the children who build forts on the boardwalk. Every anecdote is a small bridge to the technical recommendations you offer next. The room listens; a few heads tilt, a mouth curls into a half-smile at a recognizable street detail. Hope gathers in the air.

Marco clears his throat, a smooth sound that ripples like synthetic rain.
Marco Voss: "Ms. Vale is right to rally the community — but we also have to talk about scale. My firm proposes a comprehensive modernization: consolidated waterfront, private funding to accelerate infrastructure that, frankly, the budget can't support otherwise."

There is a small ripple of applause from a handful of faces near him — business owners and hands that have learned to move money into results. His offer is simple, fast, and brilliantly packaged.

You feel the tug of old fears: fast money often comes with strings. But the room's energy is not just alarm; it's engaged. People lean forward. This is exactly what you wanted: a debate where options are visible and the council must choose with eyes wide open.

Eli steps forward, voice measured.
Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "Both approaches have value. What we need is a pathway that preserves livelihoods while shoring up vulnerabilities. For example, modular seawalls tied to ecological buffers can reduce both cost and environmental harm if we phase them correctly. We can pilot and scale."

His hands trace an invisible plan in the air; his practicality frames your vision with technical scaffolding. There is a visible easing in the room when he speaks — the kind that happens when someone translates hope into scheme.

Miriam interjects, brisk and compelling.
Miriam: "And accountability. Whatever route we take, contracts must include living-wage labor clauses, community oversight, and a grievance process. No more backroom deals."

A council member raises a hand, voice skeptical but not hostile.
Council Member Ruiz: "Ms. Vale, Mr. Voss, without quick funds we risk more damage in the next storm. How do you propose ensuring speed without sacrificing fairness?"

Your answer comes out in a rhythm you didn't plan but trust: acknowledgment, proposal, commitment.

You: "We propose a two-track process. Immediate, community-led pilots to address acute vulnerabilities — porches, small-business protections, mangrove saplings — plus a transparent expedite channel for larger infrastructure, contingent on enforceable community safeguards. We draft the terms here, in council, and hold any private partner to them."

Your words land like measured planks, building an argument that feels both principled and achievable. The room breathes with you. There are nods. A hand wipes at a damp forehead. This is civic work in motion.

Marco's smile tightens in a way that reads like calculation and, beneath it, genuine concern.
Marco Voss: "You speak of safeguards. I can offer funding and logistical capacity, but I can't sign off on endless delays. Investors expect results. However — and I'm willing to say this publicly — my firm would accept community-governed oversight committees if the council enacts binding terms."

The audience exhales at that concession. It is a narrowing of the gulf between private muscle and public will. You register complexity in Marco's face: there's earnestness in his pitch and a steel that refuses to promise too much.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Underline 'community-governed oversight' in your reply") -> Reaction: "You emphasize oversight, asking directly who will sit on those committees and how they're chosen. The room appreciates the concreteness; murmurs shift toward 'how' and 'who' rather than 'if'." || Choice B ("Ask Marco to specify a phased timeline instead") -> Reaction: "You press for a timeline — clear milestones and release of funds tied to verifiable community metrics. His jaw tightens; when he answers, you get dates instead of platitudes, and that's the currency people want."]

The Council Chair folds his hands, weighing. The air is primed with possibility — not naive, but determined.

Council Chair: "We must decide whether to authorize exploratory negotiations, and if so — under what framework. Ms. Vale, the council asks you: will you endorse a pathway here tonight? Will you recommend a collaborative retrofit route with Mr. Navarro's technical lead, or accept a private partnership under the conditions Mr. Voss offers, or do you call for a strictly community-driven escalation?"

Your pulse answers in your throat. This is the hinge moment — the one that redirects the town's next steps. You feel the faces around you as a tide: some pulling toward speed, some toward equity, many toward safety.

Eli catches your eye. He gives you a small, steady look that says choices will bring compromise, but also that you won't be alone. Miriam's jaw sets in a way that says she will organize regardless of the outcome. Marco's gaze, as always, is complex and unreadable; it holds a promise and a question.

In the hush, you imagine the mangroves taking root, the raised promenades humming with local vendors, the memory of the town reshaped but still recognizable. You imagine funds flowing with accountability or being withheld; you imagine people mobilizing in the streets to ensure justice; you imagine a hybrid plan that carries both urgency and care. Each image is possible, each with costs and gains.

You breathe. The room leans in.

[Visual: Light from the projector flickers on the options being discussed, like a lighthouse scanning possibilities]
[Music: Strings swell with an hopeful cadence]

You are asked, plainly, to endorse a path.

[Scene Transition: The choice hangs in the air — electric, inevitable]

{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Which path do I endorse publicly at the meeting?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Work closely with Eli and prioritize pragmatic engineering + ecology",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Accept Marco’s partnership under strict terms",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Reject corporate deals; escalate grassroots mobilization",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}

[DECISION POINT]