[Scene: Council Hall | Dusk]
[Visual: Long shot of Council Hall's concrete facade under a bruised sky; people converge in small clusters. Camera moves through the crowd to the entry doors.]
[Music: Low string sustain, subtle pulse under dialogue]
[Sound: Distant gulls cut by the murmur of a gathered crowd; rain tapping on the hall's metal awning]

You step inside with the waterproof folder pressed against your ribs. The fluorescent lights wash over everyone in a thin, clinical glare that smells faintly of rain and printer toner. The room is full enough that it presses at your shoulders — neighbors you've known since childhood, a few suited representatives, a half-dozen cameras, and the nervous constellation of investors murmuring by the back table.

Abuela Rosa sits a few rows forward. Her hands are folded in her lap; her face is small and patient in the harsh light. Mateo stands at the edge of the crowd, jaw set, one hand tucked into the pocket of a weathered oilskin. Sofía's frown is tight as a knot; she balances on the balls of her feet as if ready to bolt. Their faces are anchors in the storm of noise; you need them to be steady, though you feel the tilt of a thousand small risks beneath your boots.

You feel the brass of your compass warm against your throat where it sits beneath your scarf. It is a ridiculous comfort and an old promise: keep track, keep steady. You breathe through a cold tightening in your chest. Tonight isn't a debate about plans in the abstract; it's about roofs, boats, gardens, and the way your sister's laugh should still fit into this town.

[Visual: Cut to dais at the front. Iris Varela stands at the podium first, palms flat. Behind her, a municipal banner flutters despite closed windows; investor logos glint on a display screen.]
[Sound: A single, brittle cough settles the room; a microphone pops and steadies]

Iris Varela: "Friends, neighbors — we do not have the luxury of time. The sea takes what it wants quickly now. I've negotiated a contract that will bring immediate, structural protection to our shorelines. A centralized barrier, built to standards that save lives this season."

Her voice is precise, practiced. Each sentence clicks into place like a bolt. You feel the room lean forward as if pulled by the promise of safety. There are nods, close-eyed sighs, hands clamped to the backs of chairs.

Iris Varela: (continuing) "Yes, there are sacrifices. Yes, it will change the coastline. But what is the alternative? Waiting while houses wash out, while livelihoods vanish? I will not stand here and count the dead because we argued about ideals."

A low mutter runs through the hall — fear coiling into applause, then a scattering of sharp questions. The investors at the rear exchange looks that are all calculation and restraint.

Elias Park stands anyway, shoulders relaxed but eyes watching the room like someone mapping currents. He moves to the podium with a small stack of printed diagrams and a slide that shows a series of modular barriers woven with marsh restoration.

Elias Park: "Iris's urgency is real — I don't dispute the stakes. But there is a middle way. We've prototyped modular defenses that can be scaled, and they integrate living marshes that absorb storm energy, provide habitats, and keep livelihoods intact. They need oversight, they need time, and they need your voices in the pilot."

He speaks with the soft conviction of someone used to troubleshooting real things. His words are warm; they wrap around your worry like a hand on the small of your back. A few people clap; Mateo shifts, trying to read the room.

Iris's mouth tightens. Someone in the crowd cries out: "Time, Elias! We don't have more time!"

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Stand and clap for Elias") -> Reaction: "You push off the bench and your hands meet in a sharp, supportive clap. It directs some warmth toward Elias and the wordless hope in his proposal." || Choice B ("Stay seated and listen") -> Reaction: "You keep your hands folded over your folder. The silence makes your throat raw, but it steadies your gaze on the faces in the crowd."] 

[Visual: Close-ups — a child's sopping sneakers in the aisle, a protest sign folded against a hip, the sheen of rain on a camera lens.]
[Sound: A tensioned whispering, the scrape of chairs as more people press in]

The town erupts into competing voices. A woman near the front speaks of the boatyard where her husband fixes nets; she asks what part of their livelihood Iris's plan will claim. An older man shouts that a small pilot could fail and leave them exposed. The air smells of wet wool and the oily tang of fries from the market — ordinary things, ordinary stakes — and the smell makes your stomach lurch.

Abuela Rosa reaches up then, voice soft but carrying: "We have lived with the tide longer than most. We do not ask to hold it back forever — we ask for dignity, for a way to keep our children’s work. You cannot throw the shore away and call it protection."

Abuela Rosa: (after a beat, to Iris) "Iris, do you remember the marker stones by the old cove? They used to keep the line between fish and home. If those stones move, what do we have left?"

Iris Varela: "I remember. I also remember the night my boat did not come back. I remember what it is to count the missing. This is not abstract for me, Rosa."

The exchange is a small match striking wet tinder. You hear Mateo's voice, low and steady, trying to braid the two into something less brittle.

Mateo: "We need both speed and thought. Builders can work fast if we clear the way, but we also need hands on the ground. That's how we keep people fed and the jobs open."

Elias Park: "That's exactly why the pilot includes community stewards. We can train local teams to maintain and adapt the modules — they aren't zero-sum."

Iris Varela: "And if the pilot fails while we argue, people drown. My plan is insurance you can rely on."

Elias Park: (sharper) "Insurance that flattens the bay and hands control to outside contractors isn't community. It's displacement dressed up as certainty."

Their voices are not just policy; they are memory and accusation wrapped into technical language. You feel each syllable like a wave against the bones of the hall.

Sofía stands then, voice high and raw with indignation: "You say 'pilot' like experiments don't bury people. What about the league of kids who will inherit what you decide now? Are you going to sell them a promise or a plan?"

Sofía's words land hard. Cameras pivot. Someone in the crowd sobs softly. The mid-level intensity holds: not chaos, but a pressure that tightens around your lungs.

You open your mouth to speak and close it, thinking of how to frame what must be said. Your mind flips through maps and the smell of the marsh at low tide, through Abuela Rosa's stories and Mateo's hands — through the long list of names in your waterproof folder. Every option is threaded with cost.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Clear your throat and step up calmly") -> Reaction: "You step forward with the measured steadiness you've practiced. The hall waits for a reason you can feel as a physical thing." || Choice B ("Call out from your seat, sharp") -> Reaction: "Your voice cuts across the room — direct, unsoftened. A few heads turn, startled; some eyes sharpen with attention."] 

Elias catches your eye and for a second his expression is open, pleading without words. Iris watches you as if weighing a small animal in her palm — clinical, precise. The investors adjust their chairs; their interest is a ledger of possibilities that could tip the town toward either speed or patience.

Your internal monologue runs hot and unforgiving. You remember the cracked hull of your father's skiff and the night you carried soggy crates to higher ground. You remember the promise you made to yourself when you returned: to hold the maps and the memories together in a way that didn't flatten either. Guilt threads everything — because if you speak for Elias and it fails, you will have watched your neighbors suffer for the sake of an ideal. If you back Iris, you will have signed away parts of the coastline that cradle small businesses and memories.

There is a practical voice, too — the town council needs a clear signal tonight; a formal endorsement will move contracts, begin construction, or unlock pilot funding. Cameras are recording. A single sentence could change the weekly rhythm of this place: who works next week, who loses a field, who keeps a roof.

Iris leans into the microphone like a captain steering into a gale.

Iris Varela: "Mara. You've mapped tides and kept lists of names longer than most of us. Tell us which path will keep us the most people alive this winter."

Her words are not gentle; they are an arm outstretched with an ultimatum at the end. The hall hushes. You hear your own heartbeat, the slow, certain thump that says you have to choose.

You think of Sofía's skateboard and the laughter that should still roll down the boardwalk. You think of Mateo's steady hands and the way Abuela Rosa folds her fingers when she prays. You breathe. The mid-tempo of the room sharpens into a single slow countdown.

You rise to the podium because silence would be another choice.

You press your palms to the wood. The microphone clicks; you can feel the dry air rasp across your tongue.

You know what you might say. You also know what might not be heard.

[Visual: Tight on your face; stormlight from the promenade windows throws hard shadows. The room waits like a held breath.]
[Music: Low strings pull taut, a single unresolved chord]

Your mouth opens.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Publicly choose the path that defines the next weeks.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Support Elias's pilot and insist on community partnership.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Back Iris's rapid structural contract to secure immediate funding.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Propose a community-first hybrid: small defenses, marsh restoration, and conditional investment.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}