[Scene: Town Hall | Early Evening]
[Visual: The brick façade of Town Hall looms against a sky rinsed by a late drizzle. Protest flyers cling to the plaza lampposts; a temporary sandbag barrier leans near the steps. People move in small clusters, breath visible, rain-slick coats rustling.]
[Sound: Low murmur of gathered townsfolk, the scratch of shoes on wet stone, distant gulls. A microphone squeaks once as tech checks volume.]

You step through the doors carrying the marker-stained notebook from the Beacon, the same notebook that has kept lists of volunteers, tide spikes, and the names of the porches you promised to protect. The air inside is warmer and smells faintly of coffee and paper — municipal evenings have a homely, anxious smell. Fluorescent lights hum overhead, honest and unpretentious.

[Visual: Inside, the council chamber is a flattened amphitheater: wooden benches, a dais with nameplates, and an overhead projector looping a municipal seal. A whiteboard stands to the side with a rough timeline sketched in your handwriting from earlier.]
[Music: Gentle rising piano, hopeful and steady]

You feel the marker in your pocket like a tether to the Beacon: experiments, sensor arrays, salt-weathered solutions. You remember the small moment at Rosa's — the laugh you shared with Eli when you realized you didn't have to carry the plan alone. That thought steadies your shoulders now; the room seems less like a gauntlet and more like a place to put down tools and begin.

[Miriam stands a few rows back, teal hair a bright flag among coats. She nods at you, then glares at the dais where Marco Voss arranges a glossy pamphlet with crisp fingers. Eli waits near the doorway, his reflective vest folded over an arm like a promise of practical work to come. Council members murmur; a couple of faces from the Beacon crowd the back row — familiar, watchful.]

You move forward and take the podium. The microphone catches your breath; it turns you into an instrument of calm.

You speak first because you must. Because someone has to name what the Beacon has been building: the mangrove trials, the survey of foundations, the microgrid feasibility sketches that might keep a clinic running through a storm. When you speak, you do it the way you always do — quietly, with clear numbers placed beside human stories.

Amara Vale: "Good evening. Thank you for making space tonight. I won't take much time — I'll start with what we've learned and what we can do together."

[Sound: A pen tapping; the room quiets further. Your voice is steadier than you feel.]

You lay out the plan in layered strokes: first, the low-cost, high-return measures that buy breathing room (raised promenades, community-managed mangrove plantings), then the mid-term projects that need engineering collaboration (modular barriers, retrofitted foundations), and finally the outline for a funding strategy that mixes grants, town bonds, and local investment. You speak in images as well as numbers: children planting stakes in the mud; the clinic's lights staying on; the bakery's oven warming the morning after a storm.

You feel eyes on you — some soft, some skeptical — and you answer not as an oracle but as a neighbor. When a council member asks for timelines, you give ranges and degrees of uncertainty, because honesty has weight here and it builds trust.

Council Member: "How long until we see tangible protection for the Old Harbor? We need answers the community can rely on."

Amara Vale: "Short-term measures can reduce immediate risk within months. For structural retrofits we'll need phased funding and engineering assessments — that's where partnerships are essential. But we can do a lot more if people are engaged and if the work is staged with residents in mind."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Pin your notebook to the podium to show physical plans") -> Reaction: "You place the battered notebook where everyone can see the handwritten timelines and the volunteer sign-up. The gesture is small but it roots your words in something tactile." || Choice B ("Keep the notebook close, emphasize the projector slides") -> Reaction: "You pull up the slides instead, letting the looped images of mangroves and raised walkways fill the screen; faces soften at the clarity of visuals."]

Marco rises as if on cue. His suit is damp at the shoulders, but he moves like someone used to making rooms incline to his voice.

Marco Voss: "Amara makes good points — and I applaud grassroots effort — but let's not pretend small-scale fixes scale quickly. I brought a proposal that unlocks immediate capital. A comprehensive redevelopment, purpose-built seawalls funded up front, private investment that can act where bureaucracy hesitates."

His tone is polished, a bright blade wrapped in velvet. He paces the floor with practiced warmth; his pamphlet is glossy, his timelines crisp. People lean forward. The fluorescent light catches his watch and makes the gold flecked band wink like a promise.

You feel a flare of resistance — not because he offers money, but because money stripped of conditions can erase lives like eroded shoreline. Still, Marco's words do not close doors; they throw them open with a force that makes folks imagine rapid change.

Miriam cuts in, voice pitched high with the cadence of someone used to rallying people on the plaza.

Miriam: "And who's being redeveloped? Who pays if 'modernization' means displacement? We've seen promises like this before — fast fixes that move problems onto the backs of renters and small businesses."

Marco Voss: "Displacement is not the objective. My proposal includes a relocation fund and mixed-income housing. I want Seabright to survive — genuinely."

Miriam: "Relocation funds are not a substitute for consent. We deserve better than 'we'll move you' as a plan."

[Sound: The room hums. A rustle from the back — a daughter squeezing her father's hand; somewhere a toddler fidgets.]

Eli steps forward with his satchel slung over a shoulder, blueprints peeking like confidences. He doesn't take the podium; instead he stands in the aisle, quiet but emphatic.

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "There are engineering compromises that let us move faster without erasing people. Modular seawalls that can be phased, elevated walkways that can be community-built with technical oversight — these need a mix of funding and local labor. We can draft the specs within weeks if we have clear authorization to start assessments."

Eli meets your eyes and there is a steadiness there — not pressure, only a shared map. You notice the way his hands make small framing gestures, the same way he used to when explaining stress curves. He doesn't dismiss Marco's funding; he reframes it as one of several inputs.

Marco Voss: (smiling) "So we already have common ground — engineering with capital. We can move quickly if the council greenlights exploratory deals."

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "Quick doesn't have to mean reckless. We need enforceable terms that keep residents' rights central. That's not a legal dance; that's the only way a wall or a foundation lasts when people have to live by it."

Marco's smile holds, but there's an edge now — not hostility, but the first line of negotiation.

You hear the breath of the room change. The conversation has moved from what can be built to who it will serve, how it will be paid for, and how its benefits are measured. In that pause, you sense something like trust reshaping itself: not uniform agreement, but workable alignment.

You recall Hal's voice from your files — a memory that surfaces like a flotsam: "Build for the people who've weathered the storms, not just what looks good on paper." The image steadies your hands.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call out for a residents' oversight clause") -> Reaction: "You raise your voice so the room leans in and ask for a residents' oversight clause — a simple mechanism that demands local approval for key milestones. Heads nod; it reframes the talk of 'exploratory deals' into something accountable." || Choice B ("Ask Eli to outline a phased technical plan instead") -> Reaction: "You gesture to Eli and ask him to sketch a phased plan on the whiteboard. He steps up, marker in hand, and begins to draw clear, incremental steps. People relax into the practicality of it."]

The mayor clears her throat, an invitation to frame the next move. Council members exchange glances — some hopeful, some cautious. You can feel momentum; the debate is no longer only about arguing but about building a path forward. That forward direction feels bright in a way that binds the room; it's the exact kind of rising energy you have been trying to cultivate since you returned to Seabright.

Marco leans in, lowering his voice so the nearby microphones catch the intimacy of his promise.

Marco Voss: "I'm open to safeguards. Put them in the contract. I don't want my company's name associated with harm any more than you do. Let us be partners with strict, enforceable terms."

Miriam snorts softly, but the note in her expression is not total dismissal — it's a guarded curiosity. Eli watches Marco's hands; they show movement, but his jaw stays soft.

Elias 'Eli' Navarro: "If we can get enforceable oversight, resident advisory seats, and phased engineering checks, the public-private mix could accelerate protection without bulldozing the town."

[Sound: A soft, collective exhale — not relief exactly, but a recognition that possibilities are stacking rather than collapsing.]

You stand at the podium with the mic warming your palm. The room compresses around what you will say next: a public endorsement that will steer the council's authorization. Each option on the table — cooperative engineering with community leadership, a conditional private partnership, or a full grassroots push — feels like a different version of care for Seabright.

Internally, your priorities hum like tuned strings: protect people now, preserve the town's character, and make sure funding includes enforceable resident protections. You also carry the ache of the last storms and the stubborn, pragmatic impulse to get things done.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Look directly at Marco and affirm conditions out loud") -> Reaction: "You fix Marco with a calm, even gaze and read the conditions you will insist on if his money is to be included: oversight, no forced displacement, transparent audits. A murmur moves through the room; even Marco's smile shifts toward respect." || Choice B ("Turn to Eli and Miriam and propose a hybrid framework") -> Reaction: "You pivot to Eli and Miriam, voice steady, proposing a hybrid: phased engineering overseen by resident committees, with any private funds bound by municipal covenants. Faces in the crowd shift — some skeptical, some visibly relieved."]

Your throat is dry, but the dryness is not fear; it's the residue of speaking clearly and opening doors. The mayor leans forward, pen poised. The council member from the Old Harbor taps his fingers, waiting for the public anchor.

You are about to speak, to place your public weight behind one of the paths that could shape Seabright's next decade. For a beat the world narrows to the microphone, the faces in the room, the list of outcomes you carry like stones in your pocket.

[Visual: Close-up on the notebook on the podium — faded lighthouse sticker, coffee stain at the corner — a small, human thing amid policy and plans.]
[Music: Piano swells into a hopeful chord, then softens to a sustained note]

Which path do you endorse publicly at the meeting?

- "Work closely with Eli and prioritize pragmatic engineering + ecology"
- "Accept Marco’s partnership under strict terms"
- "Reject corporate deals; escalate grassroots mobilization"

[DECISION POINT]
has_choice: true
description: "Which path do I endorse publicly at the meeting?"
options:
  - label: "Work closely with Eli and prioritize pragmatic engineering + ecology"
    target_chapter_id: 4
    target_chapter_index: 4
  - label: "Accept Marco’s partnership under strict terms"
    target_chapter_id: 7
    target_chapter_index: 7
  - label: "Reject corporate deals; escalate grassroots mobilization"
    target_chapter_id: 10
    target_chapter_index: 10