[Scene: Seabright Boardwalk | Late Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of weathered boardwalk, sun slanting through thin clouds; salt streaks trace the planks]
[Sound: Distant gull calls, the rhythmic slap of small waves against pilings, boards creaking underfoot]
[Music: Gentle, hopeful acoustic guitar with a steady, driving rhythm]

You move along the edge of the boardwalk with the sensor reader warm against your palm and the field notebook tucked under your arm. Salt flakes the edges of the reader's casing; algae has traced a brown line three inches above last week's high-tide mark. Everything smells of brine and sun-warmed tar — the smell that has become Seabright's constant punctuation.

You crouch over a stretch of railing where barnacles have reclaimed a rusted bolt and the paint has peeled into irregular maps. You set the reader down and watch the tiny LED blink; the numbers pulse like a heartbeat on the edge of a tide chart. You write a terse note: "new algae line — +7 cm; railing corrosion accelerating." Your hand is steady, but your chest is tight with the same low ache you've learned not to name in public.

You check your notes, then look out at the bay. The water is a low, reflective plane, a mosaic of old nets, bobbing buoys, and the distant sweep of a dredging barge — a reminder that adaptation here is always improvisation.

[Visual: Mid-shot — Eli approaching along the boardwalk, satchel slung over one shoulder]
[Sound: The soft thud of boots on wood]

Eli: "You're marking up the railing like it's an heirloom."

You (Amara Vale): "It is an heirloom — of sorts. Heirlooms don't like salt." (You give a half-smile, the kind that doesn't reach the eyes immediately.)

Eli: (laughs) "Fair. Couldn't find you at the Beacon this morning." (He brushes wind-tousled curls back with a hand that still smells faintly of diesel and coffee.) "Did another round at the Old Harbor?"

You (Amara Vale): "Low tide survey, mostly. The berms at Dock Five have seeped under again. I tagged the worst spots, but we'll need volunteers to re-stack sandbags before the next swell."

Eli: (leans on the railing, scanning the same horizon) "I can swing by with Hal's crew after lunch. They owe me a favor from that foundation job last spring." (He looks at you — eyes narrowing not with suspicion but calculation.) "What's your plan for the promenade? You sounded… determined on the radio."

You feel the word settle inside you: determined. It's both shield and confession. You look at the little lighthouse sticker on your notebook and feel the old surge of responsibility — the one that made you leave and come back and stay.

You (Amara Vale): "Mangrove saplings in the shallow channels, raised promenades where the boardwalk fails, and a community microgrid to keep pumps and desal running when the power goes out. Small, modular things that neighbors can build and maintain."

Eli: (a soft, approving hum) "That's a lot of moving parts, but it's layered. Nature, structure, power. I like that." (He taps his satchel.) "Funding's the question. Marco's offering capital, but his terms will make Rosa choke on her morning scone."

You (Amara Vale): (you taste the word 'choke' and understand the danger in it) "I haven't trusted Marco since he proposed those 'revitalization leases' last year. But we can't pretend funding is infinite either. If we can show a staged plan that keeps businesses functional during retrofit, we might negotiate safeguards."

Eli: "Negotiation or leverage. Not the same thing." (He watches you, searching the lines of your face for how the survivor's guilt speaks.) "Are you carrying this because you have to, or because nobody else will say it out loud?"

You pause. The question lands like a gull-shadow over your notes. You feel the familiar pull to shoulder the town's expectations — to be the translator between graphs and people's lives — and you also feel the careful, small voice that knows you're not an island.

You (Amara Vale): "A little of both. I remember what happened to my family's street when the last surge came. I don't want anyone else to keep learning that lesson the hard way." (You fold your hands around the notebook; the paper edges are soft under your fingers.) "But I also know I can't do it alone."

Eli: (relief warming his expression) "Good. Because if you try to take the whole map on your shoulders, you'll miss the landmarks." (He smiles in the way he does when a puzzle's corner clicks into place.) "Let Rosa roast you for a minute — she bakes guilt into every pastry. Then let's sketch the phased plan together. I'll bring structural estimates; you bring the community pitch."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Record a quick audio note for the Beacon") -> Reaction: "You press REC and give a brisk summary: algae lines, corrosion, priority berms. The file uploads to the Beacon's queue — a tidy breadcrumb for later. Eli nods, satisfied with the immediate documentation." || Choice B ("Photograph the algae line and pin it in the notebook") -> Reaction: "You lift your phone and frame the algae streak against the plank grain, then tape the printout into your notebook between a tide chart and a volunteer roster. It feels more intimate — a little proof to show someone's face later. Eli leans in, pointing out a shadow that indicates undercutting." ]

Eli: (after the choice interaction) "Whatever we archive, make sure the neighbors can read it without a map." (He grins.) "You give data humanity. I'll do the engineering poetry."

You (Amara Vale): (there's a quick laugh in you) "We make quite the pair."

Eli: "We do. Like salt and graph paper."

The boardwalk whistles as a breeze pushes across the bay. Rosa's voice cuts through the air — bright and warm, carrying like steam.

Rosa: "Amara! Eli! Come in, you two — my espresso's strong enough to shame the sea!"

[Sound: Door chime, soft clinking of cups]
[Visual: Rosa's Café — brass espresso machine, hand-written menu chalked in flour-dusted script, a window fogged from the warmth inside]
[Music: Piano motif with light, playful plucking]

You hesitate at the threshold, letting the warmth wash over the salty skin on your face. Inside, the café is a pocket of color: pots of basil on the sill, a faded crocheted throw over a lamp, and a community board dense with flyers — volunteer days, lost-and-found buoys, and last month's council minutes.

Rosa stands behind the counter in her flour-dusted apron, cap knit bright as sunrise. She pours two cups with fluid, practiced motions.

Rosa: (handing you a cup) "You look like you need someone to insist you accept a cinnamon roll." (Her tone is teasing but layered with concern.) "Don't start the Beacon meeting without a bite or you'll faint dramatically and scare the volunteers."

You (Amara Vale): "If I faint, we'll count it as outreach." (You take a sip. The coffee is bitter and grounding, the gulao sugar lingering like an anchor.) "Thanks. I ran the low-tide survey this morning. The sapling stakes are in but we need more hands on planting."

Rosa: "Miriam's bringing eighteen people next Saturday. She wants to make a banner and chant while she plants." (Rosa's eyes crinkle.) "This town loves a good banner." (She slides a small plate toward Eli.) "Eli, are you telling them you'll show up with tools or just your handsome face?"

Eli: (mock offended) "My face has been engineered for public morale. But yes — tools. And Hal said he'll bring an antique crowbar that his spine swears is a lifetime investment."

You laugh, and the sound feels like the first clear thing you've said all morning. The communal warmth makes the boardwalk world seem rearrangeable — not inevitable.

Rosa: (drops her voice, gentle) "You're carrying a lot, love. You look like a woman who sleeps with tide charts under her pillow."

You (Amara Vale): "Sometimes I think if I could just sleep, I could solve it in my dreams." (You set the cup down, fingers trailing across the rim as if the heat could transfer some courage.) "But I don't want to be the person who makes decisions for everyone without listening."

Rosa: (softly) "Then listen. Torch it and give it back. Share it. You know how to build a map, Amara. Now build us onto it."

The phrase prickles like sun on damp skin — "build us onto it" — and you feel the trajectory of your work shift from a list of tasks to something that could be a promise.

Eli: (leans in, earnest) "Okay. Let's be tactical. First phases: community mangrove nurseries — low cost, high ecological ROI. Second: modular promenade segments that can be built in a weekend with volunteers. Third: microgrid pilots for the desal units and emergency pumps. We show each phase with a visible, quick win and a pathway to scale."

You (Amara Vale): (you trace that plan in the condensation on your cup) "Quick wins. People need to see the change to stay the course. If we can plant a hundred saplings and keep the boardwalk open through a storm, we've bought trust."

Rosa: "And after the trust is bought?" (She lifts an eyebrow.) "You plan to cash it in for more work?"

You (Amara Vale): "I plan to ask the town to invest that trust in itself. To sign up. To volunteer. To vote. To say no to deals that displace people." (Your voice hardens gently.) "I can't promise that everything will go the way I want. But I can promise I'll keep showing up."

Eli: (quietly) "And we'll show up with you."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Accept Rosa's cinnamon roll and promise to lead the plant day") -> Reaction: "You pick up the cinnamon roll, the sugar grinding under your teeth and a warmth that isn't just from the oven. You nod, agreeing to be present for the planting — not as the only leader, but as a coordinator. Rosa beams, already plotting coffee schedules for volunteers." || Choice B ("Decline the pastry diplomatically and ask Rosa to post volunteer sign-ups") -> Reaction: "You shake your head and gesture toward the community board. 'Post the sign-up,' you say. 'Make sure lukewarm coffee is a crime.' Rosa laughs and slaps a fresh flyer up, penciling in times as if she's marking the town's heartbeat." ]

Rosa: (after the choice interaction) "Both good. Both you. We like you in carbs or we like you in lists. Either way, you're staying."

You feel the buoyancy of other people's certainty like a current lifting you. Survivor's guilt is still there — a low tide line in your chest — but it's no longer the only feature in the landscape. The conversation rearranges you: responsibility shared, plans sketched, small rituals scheduled. It feels like the beginning of infrastructure not just for flood protection, but for trust.

[Visual: Close-up of your notebook; a rough schematic of the mangrove channels, a sticky note: "Rosa's café = meeting point," and a scrawled reminder: "Talk to Miriam; Hal for tools; Eli — funding models"]
[Sound: Café ambient hum, a chair scraping as someone joins another table; distant gulls quieter now]

Eli: "I'll draft the first-stage budget tonight. You finalize the volunteer workflow. We'll meet at the Beacon with Miriam and Hal after Rosa's rush — say, two?"

You (Amara Vale): "Two is good." (You exhale; it's a small, steadying breath.) "We'll start with the nursery beds and the promenade prototype. If we get volunteers, we'll get attention. If we get attention, we negotiate from strength."

Rosa: (with theatrical gravitas) "And if Marco shows up with a shiny checkbook, we show him sticky flyers and a chorus line of townspeople. That tends to dull corporate charm."

You all laugh, the sound a short, warm swell. Laughing doesn't fix everything, but it knits conversation into community.

You stand, tucking the notebook back into your jacket. The sun has edged higher; there is work to do, and — for the first time this morning — a clear path through it. The boardwalk behind you looks less like a history of damage and more like a series of potential projects: patches that can be replaced, segments that can be raised, communities that can be mobilized.

You watch Eli and Rosa for a moment — their gestures, the ways they set priorities not as abstractions but as invitations. A small, hopeful heat spreads through your chest. It is not certainty. It is movement.

You turn toward the direction of the Beacon in your mind — the whiteboards where graphs will be translated into tasks and tasks into people's lives. The thought lingers; you can already see the dry-erase haze of tide graphs and the scrawl of a thousand volunteer names. That image hums, a page waiting to be turned.

[Visual: Distant shot — the Beacon's silhouette across the channel, solar panels catching the late-morning light]
[Music: The acoustic guitar lifts into a brighter motif, suggesting forward momentum]

You fold your coat tighter against the slight breeze, feeling the salt in the air like an exhale. You could spend the afternoon cataloging corrosion. Or you could spend it building the things that keep places and people together.

A small, sharp page-turn in your chest tells you which choice you already intend to make.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 2
}