[Scene: Town Hall Awning | Late Morning]
[Visual: A slate sky laced with thin sun; rain from earlier has left the stone slick and smelling of warmed seaweed. The town hall's awning drips in slow, patient beads.]
[Sound: A distant rhythm of chanting and a repetitive stomp — protesters in the plaza below — muffled under the awning's curve. The gulls wheel and call beyond the brick cornice.]
[Music: Gentle, ascending strings — steady, not triumphant; a pulse of possibility.]

You wait beneath the awning, hands tucked into the sleeves of your jacket. Your breath fogs, then clears. The town hall's damp brick gives off that particular, lived-in warmth — the smell of old paper, sun-dried coats, and the sea pressed into everything. Eli is beside you, leaning on the railing, blueprints rolled under one arm like a sleeping thing. Hal has a slow, approving line at the corner of his mouth; he keeps one hand in his pocket as if to steady the moment.

You can hear Miriam's voice rise and fall in the square — strong and bright; someone hands out flyers with an urgency that smells faintly of lemon oil and printer ink. The protest is close enough to be a drumbeat, distant enough not to drown the conversation you came here to have.

Eli glances at you. His expression is careful, unreadable in the way that matters: not cold, not warm exactly, just a complex alignment of concern, calculation, and something that softens when he looks at a plan he believes in.

Hal: "They'll be loud, but they're right to be loud. Reminds people that the heart's in the right place."

Eli: "If we keep the engineering in the center of the pitch — modular walls, raised promenades, local hiring quotas — we can sell the plan without selling the town. Marco wants scale; we can make scale accountable."

You tuck a loose strand of hair behind your ear and try to lay the air out in plain measurements: how many jobs, how much shoreline preserved, how many families could be relocated with dignity. Your chest feels a steady pressure — not panic, not triumph, but the weight of translating a moral map into legal ink.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Extend your hand when Marco arrives to set a tone of partnership") -> Reaction: "You step forward as a sleek black car eases up to the curb. When Marco emerges, you offer your hand with a deliberate, open smile. He accepts it with that easy, practiced grip; his eyes flick to Eli, then to Hal, searching for measure. You feel the first thread of negotiation hover between you." || Choice B ("Stand back and let Marco speak first, preserving a stance of scrutiny") -> Reaction: "You keep your hands in your pockets and let Marco approach the awning. He talks first — smooth, shiny sentences about modernization and safety — and you take time to note language and ommissions. When he finishes, you have a list forming in your mind of things you need him to explain." ]

Marco arrives in a tailored raincoat that still carries the tang of sea-spray — he moves like someone who has practiced appearing both approachable and inevitable. His smile is quick and precise.

Marco Voss: "Amara. Good to see you. This town… there’s a clarity to it. You carry it well." (He casts a look at Eli and Hal.) "Eli. Hal. Always good to find old colleagues who still care about the details."

You feel the room in the awning expand — not physically but socially. Each participant carries a ledger in their posture: Marco's financial appetite, Eli's plans and constraints, Hal's memory of storms, Miriam's righteous impatience in the square.

You guide the conversation toward the practical. Marco lays out a sketch on a tablet — animated overlays of raised foundations, a sweeping seawall here, a cluster of mixed-use developments there. His language is ambitious but framed in numbers that glitter: jobs created, capital committed, a timeline that promises urgency.

Marco Voss: "We can move fast. Funding ready. We do things at scale that municipalities can't. We can protect the main drag, guarantee work for decades, and pay for new infrastructure. It's bold."

Eli leans over the tablet, tapping a corner. His voice is quiet but sharp.

Eli: "Scale is fine if the modules are reversible and maintenance plans stay local. My worry isn't that you can build — it's who keeps it running. Who pays when a storm breaches the wall in year five? Who trains the crew from town?"

Marco Voss: (smiles, not unkindly) "That's exactly why you'd have a long-term contract. Performance bonds, escrowed maintenance funds. We have structures to ensure accountability."

Hal listens, hands steepled. When he speaks, it's the voice of someone who remembers a different era where promises were papered over by convenience.

Hal: "I've watched these promises come and go. It's the people who tend the systems who matter. If you build something that only corporate crews can service, you take the heartbeat out of the town."

You nod toward the plaza where Miriam and the others hold placards — the letters are bold and simple: PROTECT PEOPLE, NOT PROFIT. You feel the moral geometry tighten: Marco's pledge of jobs counterposed with the risk of displacement and cultural erasure.

You ask the question you came to ask, slow and deliberate so each syllable lands.

You: "If we agree to accept funding, what safeguards will you accept to keep decisions local? What guarantees do residents have against displacement?"

Marco's gaze shifts, a fraction longer than politeness requires. For an instant, his expression is complex — not unkind, not evasive either, as if he's measuring the weight of promises the way an engineer measures load-bearing walls.

Marco Voss: "Constraints can be built in. Covenants, community trusts, phased development — these are not foreign to me. What matters is that we move together. I don't want to bulldoze the soul of Seabright; I want to secure it for the next century."

You feel a small, unexpected warmth at that sentence — a tone of cooperation rather than conquest. The strings in the background swell a hair, an ascending chord that says possibility.

Eli: "We can write technical contingencies — adaptive modules that can be retrofitted, local training clauses, a community board with veto power on demolition. But legal language is a cage if misused. You need people who can read it and enforce it."

Marco Voss: "Enforcement is practical. I'm willing to entertain a community oversight board. Performance triggers, transparent reporting. But remember: money doesn't wait forever. Deliberation costs lives when you're talking about infrastructure."

Miriam's voice — closer now, sharper — threads in through the awning. She steps forward briefly, eyes bright as she speaks through a megaphone that folds the square into speech.

Miriam: "Talk is good. But we've heard this before. Will your homes and Rosa's café still be here after development 'finishes'? Will jobs go to locals or to outside firms? We need promises that stick to the people who already live here."

Hal: (to Miriam) "And you keep them loud enough that they'll have to listen." (Under his breath, to you) "Make them write it down. Every promise. No whispers."

Your mind shifts into procedural mode: redlines, oversight, escrow, community trusts. The city law language becomes familiar, the way tide graphs read like weather. You know what safe contracts look like; you also know they become traps if not watched.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Marco to commit to a community oversight board with veto on demolition") -> Reaction: "You put the idea bluntly on the table. Marco nods, as if expecting negotiation. He says he can accept an oversight board in principle, but asks for clear performance metrics and timelines to avoid indefinite delays. You sense a seam where accountability and speed might be stitched together." || Choice B ("Push for immediate guarantees on local hiring and training programs") -> Reaction: "You press him on jobs — names, numbers, apprenticeship quotas. Eli murmurs approval; the pressure makes Marco's jaw set, but he says specifics can be negotiated into the contract. There's optimism in the room, but you also know numbers on paper need enforcement." ]

Marco's polish shows tiny cracks — not in his conviction but in the realization that community demands will complicate his timelines. He is quick to adapt rhetoric into concession where it helps the deal.

Marco Voss: "I'll agree to an oversight mechanism and concrete hiring targets. We want local buy-in. If there's a way to make this partnership both accountable and efficient, we'll find it."

You feel a rush — not naive euphoria, but relief that the conversation isn't a showdown. There's room to shape rather than being steamrolled. The town's voice, raised in Miriam's cadence and Hal's memory, is not outside the negotiation; it's being invited inside.

Eli: "We'll need redlines. Clear triggers for maintenance funds. Community-controlled escrow. And clauses that forbid displacement without a relocation plan and community consent."

Marco Voss: "Draw your redlines. Show me the boundaries you're not willing to cross. I'll have my team draft something that responds."

Hal: (a small, wry smile) "There it is. The beginning of paper we can actually put our names on."

A breeze slips beneath the awning, carrying a smell of wet wood and sea-salt. The chanting softens, not vanishing but folding into conversation. You close your eyes for a beat and take it in — the clarity of the moment, the fact that the square's drum is matched by a table where promises can be written down and fought over with words instead of fists.

Your internal ledger runs through possibilities and consequences. There are compromises ahead. There are also tools — legal, communal, technical — that can bend big capital to local needs. You are someone who believes in translating data and hope into structures that last.

You open your eyes and see Marco watching you with something that reads like cautious admiration.

Marco Voss: "So where do we start? You give me the redlines. Eli and Hal — you two specify the technical benchmarks. We'll draft the memorandum. You'll have oversight. We'll put performance bonds in place. We move within months."

Your pulse quickens at the pace offered: months, not years. It feels like an offering — of speed without surrender, if the redlines hold.

You feel the decision forming like a tideline: accept engagement and push to make it binding, or pull back and demand a different posture. The town's future is not in one sentence, but in the first line of a contract.

[Page-Turn Moment]
You reach for your notebook — not to sign, but to write the first scaffold of those redlines. Outside, Miriam's chant becomes a chorus; it is not opposite to this table but part of its gravity. The awning's drip times a patient drum. You breathe, tasting brine and ink and the bright, clean possibility of work that matters. The room holds its breath with you, waiting for the shape of your answer.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 8
}