[Scene: Coves | Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of the coves at low tide; heavy machines crouched like metal beasts against the mudflats; ropes and bunting sag from recent rain]
[Sound: Distant diesel throbs, clank of excavator bucket, gulls keening over the din]
[Music: Low, mournful cello; a single violin thread that never quite resolves]

You do not know how long you stand on the edge of the boardwalk watching the water mark the old rocks, counting the tide-lines like breaths. Whatever path you chose yesterday—the sealed signature, the late bargaining, the quiet leak that became a roar—the sea did what it has always done: it followed the easiest opening.

In one telling, the machines came at dawn. Their teeth tore into the coves Tomas has baited for forty years. Planks of kelp and the echo of a boat's hull were the only witnesses as a trench was gouged where his nets once hung. There is a terrible efficiency to a wall that arrives on time; it cuts and fits like a scalpel and leaves no soft places for memory.

In another, Lux held back until her lawyers were satisfied, and the crews were meant to wait. The delay kept their hands folded, but not the weather. A sudden surge—sharp and unannounced—rolled through a still-unfinished floodgate. It climbed where the berm failed and found Hana's tenant's narrow house, turning the doorway into an hourglass of rushing water and missing shoes.

In a third, you remember the righteous heat of the leak, the town's voices amplified until investors blinked and withdrew funds. The streets felt momentarily righteous; people held each other tighter on the promenade. But the delay starved the jetty of repairs. Spring's high tide pushed through a weakened seam and the jetty collapsed into a hush of breaking planks.

Which of these is your truth depends on the hand you raised yesterday—exactly the kind of ambiguity that settles in the marrow on a morning like this. You press the dive watch against your palm. Its metal is warm where your brother's skin used to be. The watch is small, patient, and faultless. It is also, incomparably, not a life.

Tomas comes up behind you without a sound, as if the walk itself had learned to be careful. His coat smells of tar and last night's soup. He does not look at the machines. He looks at you.

Tomas Bianchi: "We thought you could keep one thing whole, Maya." (His voice has the sandpaper softness of someone who has swallowed storms.)

You hear the accusation like a stone dropping into cold water. It ripples, and everyone on the promenade feels the wave.

You do not answer immediately. You fold and unfold the strap of the watch until the buckle gives a small, familiar click. The sound anchors you—childhood, the night before the storm, the promise you still carry.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Put the watch on and meet his eyes") -> Reaction: "You slip the watch onto your wrist with deliberate calm. When you look up, Tomas's jaw loosens a fraction; it's a small, human thing, but it is not forgiveness." || Choice B ("Leave the watch in your palm and walk away") -> Reaction: "You hold the watch like a relic, then turn your back. The boardwalk boards creak under your boots; Tomas's silence expands to fill the space between you."]


[Scene: Forum / Harborfall Town Hall | Midday]
[Visual: The town hall packed; damp coats and held umbrellas crowd the vestibule; the forum's dais is already ringed with microphones and the Mayor's pin flashes under fluorescent light]
[Sound: Low murmur of conversation, the scrape of chairs, a thread of someone counting breaths]
[Music: Tighter strings, punctuated with distant thunder]

You take your seat at the front because in this town, someone has to. The lights hum. The mayor's eyes dart like someone balancing a ledger of human cost. Hana's hands are folded in the audience; she looks small and immense at once—soup-stained apron gone to a neat coat, fingers still smelling faintly of rosemary.

Kaito is there before you—leaning too straight, his sensor pendant dark for once. His face is facecareful. When you meet his gaze you see the tremor in his hands he tries to hide; data can be steady, but people cannot always be reduced to graphs.

Kaito Sato: "Maya." (He says your name like an examination.) "You chose a path. People expected—" (He stops; the breath between them is loud.) "They expected clarity."

You can feel the room waiting to hear you be perfect and never wrong. You are not that. You never were. You clear your throat and speak because silence will ossify into accusation if you do not.

Maya Inoue [inside]: "I know what was lost. I know where decisions landed. I did the thing I thought would save—"

Kaito interrupts, voice taut with something like pain and anger braided together.

Kaito Sato: "You thought—and we followed. People trusted that you had the map. They trusted you had the seam covered. That trust is not a ledger you can balance with good intentions."

You want to answer with the numbers: the sensors Kaito promised, the clauses Lux claimed she'd concede, the alternative plan that would have taken years. You want to show them how every variable converged like weather. Instead, your voice comes out small and honest.

Maya Inoue [inside]: "I tried to carry more than I had the strength for."

Kaito's hands flex. He looks at you the way someone looks at a fragile machine they built that now leaks oil.

Kaito Sato: "Trying is not always enough, Maya. The town needed certainty. We—" (He swallows.) "We needed you to hold us."

The forum bursts into questions, accusations, and the raw, familiar brand of local grief. A woman stands and asks about her husband's nets; a man calls you a traitor; someone else accuses Lux of paying lip service. The mayor tries to restore order with the practiced tone of a public servant who knows how to keep an assembly from dissolving into chaos. Her hands are steady but her eyes are tired.

Mayor Elena Rossi: "We will hear all sides. But we cannot afford to fragment now—people's homes are at risk."

Hana catches your eye from the crowd. Her smile is gone; only the bone of it remains. When she speaks later, she is quiet as a boiling pot.

Hana Kim: "You asked me to feed people in a storm. I didn't think I'd be serving apologies." (Her hands are clasped to her chest as though the heart inside is fragile glass.) "There's a tenant of mine whose home is gone. They have nowhere to go tonight."

You stand to answer, but words feel inadequate. You reach for a point of honesty because sometimes honesty, however blunt, opens a space where action can begin.

Maya Inoue [inside]: "I am sorry. Not for the choices—I am sorry for what we all lost, for the gaps that let the water in."

There's a long exchange—questions and attempts at policy, at blame, at where funds will come from—and it winds into a murmur of people too raw to be rational. Lux sits at the end of the table with her hands folded, steel-gray eyes watching. She will later stand and offer a statement that is both practical and cold: a reassessment, a timeline, contingencies. Her voice promises control. It also keeps the distance that marks her as part of a system, not a neighbor.

Lux Moreno: "We can accelerate the build, but those are the trade-offs. The timeline is not sentimental."

Kaito stares at her for a beat that is all accusation and keeps a professional filter. Then he looks back at you, and the professional filter cracks.

Kaito Sato: "Was the trade-off—was it worth it, Maya?"

It is not a question about engineering. It is a question about you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Answer with technical details and timelines") -> Reaction: "You pull up the numbers; your voice becomes clipped and professional. People hear plans, but their faces don't soften. Data is not balm for a house that is already gone." || Choice B ("Answer with an apology and a plan for restitution") -> Reaction: "You lay out a promise to help rebuild the places that were lost. The mayor nods, Kaito's jaw unclenches a fraction; it will not erase what happened, but it shifts the room from accusation into action."]


[Scene: Promenade / Storm-broken Areas | Dusk]
[Visual: The sky bruises low; streetlights reflect on puddles; a collapsed jetty piece juts like a broken promise into the surf]
[Sound: The sea, relentless and indifferent; the distant wail of a siren; the muffled sob of someone near the boardwalk]
[Music: A single piano note repeated like a pulse, bowed cello undercurrent]

You leave the town hall into a sharpening cold. Rain begins to thread the air, and it feels like the world is testing you for salt. People pass you without meeting your eyes, as if the act of looking might make your guilt heavier.

You find Hana at the promenade's edge, hands pushed into her pockets, apron gone, coat soaked. She does not move to embrace you. She waits, which in itself is a weighty thing.

Hana Kim: "There are bowls at the diner tonight," she says without looking at you. "People will come. Some of them will bring bags. Some of them will have no words." (Her voice is too small for the grief.)

You hold the watch again. The face is bright against the dark; the second hand ticks on. You think of your brother: how he loved the sea and how the sea took him. You thought saving people would be a transaction—actions for safety. Instead it has become a ledger of debts and a ledger that names you.

Maya Inoue [inside]: "I keep thinking there was a path that would have saved everyone." (You taste salt—sea and tears and the iron tang of the town's fear.) "I hold this watch and wish it could rewind."

Hana looks at you then, fully, and something like pity and fury move through her at once.

Hana Kim: "You can't hold back the ocean with your hands, Maya. You know that. But you can decide what you build when it recedes."

You want to ask her to stay, to scream at the fairness of it. Instead, you make the smallest, most human promise you can.

Maya Inoue [inside]: "I'll help clear the jetty. I'll be at the diner. I'll map out who needs what. I'm tired, Hana. I'm so tired."

Hana exhales, a laugh that is almost a sob. She takes the watch and pins it to her apron like a talisman.

Hana Kim: "Then be tired with us, not alone with the papers."

There is a lull, a space that could be a beginning. But the beginning is not tidy. It will be a sequence of small, exhausting days. It will be arguments and the smell of wet boards and the taste of soup. It will also be the slow accumulation of work that keeps people from losing everything. You think of Kaito's hands, the way they shook when he looked at you earlier. You think of Tomas and the way his face did not change.

Tomas approaches the two of you and the three of you stand like a jury that has to decide how to repair the verdict of the sea. His hands are steady around a thermos. He offers it without speaking. You accept.

Tomas Bianchi: "People will talk. They always do," he says softly. "But we fish, we mend nets, we cook for one another. Maybe that's how this town will keep its heart."

You listen. You hold that small, stubborn hope like a candle in the rain. It is not a victory. It is not absolution. It is, in its own modest way, a map.

You realize then that the forum tomorrow is no longer about options—the council's questions, the mayor's ledger, Lux's timeline. The forum tomorrow is about names and faces and who will be willing to sit next to you when the microphones are turned on. It is about blame, yes, but also about whether the town will fold under it or use it to realign priorities. The choice is not singular. It will be made in a thousand small acts.

You tuck the watch into your palm, closed and warm.

[Visual: Close on the watch ticking; the second hand sweeps and the camera lingers on the thin abrasion along the metal—an old dent]
[Sound: The sea, relentless; the soft intake of your breath]

There will be answers tomorrow. There will be cries and proposals and, perhaps, a new plan that looks less like a blade and more like stitching. The night is full of rain. Your shoulders curl against the cold. You let the weight settle; you will learn to carry it a step at a time.

[Music: Cello bows a low, final note]
[Visual: Fade to black]
[Music: Fade out]

[ENDING]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}