[Scene: Tidewatch Lab | Late Morning]
[Visual: The converted boathouse with large panes facing the water; sediment cores lined up on a long table.]
[Music: Low, warm ambient — muted piano with distant gulls]
[Sound: Soft drip from a condensation tray; a kettle hisses in the background]

You step into the lab and the air folds around you: tea steam, the faint metallic tang of instruments, and the steady, underlying smell of wet earth. Light from the sea windows is soft and gray, smearing a watercolor wash across rows of maps and jars. The tide is midway; outside, the boardwalk creaks like an old promise.

Dr. Amina Bhatt looks up from a tray of labeled cores. Her face relaxes into that calm concentration she keeps for messy data and messy people alike. Elias is there already, hunched over an elevation map, one hand tracing contour lines like they were a shore he could steer.

Dr. Amina: "You're early. Good — I wanted you here for the cores. These tell us as much about the future as the models do."

You fold the edge of your jacket under your arm, palms still warm from the walk. Being early gives you time to read the room: where people stand, what their hands do. Amina gestures to a long row of cylindrical samples wrapped in clear plastic.

Dr. Amina: "These go back thirty years in layers. Salt pulses, storm overwash, compacted sediments where a seawall used to be. We can see how the marsh has migrated and where accretion has kept pace — or hasn't."

Elias looks up when you approach. There’s an unspoken rhythm between his patience and your urgency; it shifts every time you two are in the same small space.

Elias Navarro: "If we let the shoreline move where it can, living shorelines—marsh restoration, oyster reefs—buy us time and biodiversity. They're lower-carbon solutions. But they need space and setbacks. Floodwalls buy immediate certainty for high-value property."

You feel the words settle against your ribs — 'time' and 'certainty' — each a currency in the town. Amina’s voice folds into the conversation, steady and exact.

Dr. Amina: "Engineered structures concentrate the risk downstream. The cores show pockets of historical deposition that suggest some areas could support restored marsh if we create conditions—sediment supply, reduced scouring. But we can't suddenly conjure sediment where development blocks it."

Elias: "So the trade-offs are spatial and temporal. We can protect the promenade with a wall and hope the long-term systems are funded later, or we invest in living shorelines now and accept visible vulnerability for a while."

You look down at the maps spread across the table — faded contour ink, postage-stamp notations where people live and where the saltwren commons sits — and measure the words against what you know: gardens that have been coaxed from salty mud, neighbors who keep fishing lines taut through storms.

Your internal voice is calm but resolute. You keep thinking about scale: the town’s memories are braided into the marsh. You don't want to lose that continuity to a clean, engineered line that looks permanent on a CAD drawing.

Dr. Amina: (softly) "Neither choice is purely right. There's a mix we can model. Hybrid solutions show promise — partial walls with integrated marsh terraces, engineered sediment catchment devices."

Elias nods, fingers tapping a rhythm on the map as if counting out steps.

Elias Navarro: "Funding is the other axis. Celeste's cooperative has the capital and political weight to push something through fast. If we can show a hybrid that meets her metrics and keeps living space, we might get both—money and ecology."

You let his sentence hang. The possibility is real and small; it feels like a delicate knot you could try to untangle rather than cut.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Amina to show you the oldest core") -> Reaction: "You point to the column with the darkest band. Amina sets it under the light and traces the layers with a gloved fingertip; you can see an old overwash marked by fine shell fragments and a narrow, stubborn peat layer that survived. It makes the marsh’s resilience feel tactile and stubborn." || Choice B ("Ask Elias to walk you through his hybrid sketch") -> Reaction: "Elias pulls a folded sketch from his notebook and unfolds a calm, careful diagram: a low embankment, sediment traps, living terraces. He talks slowly, mapping steps. His steadiness makes the plan feel possible, like a sequence you could actually follow."]


Dr. Amina: (to you) "Whatever you take from these, bring it to the Commons. The community's memory of where water used to come in matters as much as these cores. Models need place-based input to calibrate."

You nod. It strikes you as familiar counsel: science as scaffolding, community knowledge as the vital infill. Elias watches you listen as if cataloguing the right moment to speak or to stay silent.

Elias Navarro: "I'll map the engineering timeline around what Amina sees in the cores. If we can overlay community-identified recollection points — where people say the water came through thirty years ago — we can show funders a hybrid that’s defensible."

You offer a small, internal smile at that. Positive. Deliberate. It’s the kind of strategy that folds your two instincts — action and evidence — into one route.

[Scene: Town Hall | Noon]
[Visual: Brick-and-glass municipal building; a small bulletin board by the entrance crowded with flyers]
[Sound: Distant traffic and the muted clatter of a coffee cup]

The notice board feels louder than it should. The posted documents are a mix of community posters and formal notices; your fingertips skim a flyer about the youth climate art show, then catch on a stark, typed letter from the municipal clerk.

You read: "Notice: The Council will schedule a vote regarding proposed shoreline projects. Petition lodged by Park Cooperative—Promenade Redevelopment Plan." Celeste Park's name is on the filing in a neat, unobtrusive typeface. It is the kind of officialness that compresses time.

Your chest tightens a fraction but not in panic. Instead, a steady, brightened focus — a call to do the things you already do: gather, inform, show work the town recognizes. The vote is a pressure, yes, but also an opportunity.

A clerk passing by offers a curt nod when you pause. You make a mental note: the schedule is public, the vote is real, and you need to be ready.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Snap a photo of the notice to share with Rae") -> Reaction: "You hold your phone out and frame the notice; the click is small and factual. Rae will want the image for posters and for tonight's social push." || Choice B ("Leave the notice and go straight to the Mill") -> Reaction: "You tuck your hands into your jacket and step away. The notice sits on the board like a bell to be rung; sometimes you prefer to move without making noise, to consider next words before you share them."]


[Scene: Rooftop Garden of the Old Mill | Afternoon — Golden Hour]
[Visual: Hanging planters, mason-jar lanterns, rope ladder entrance; wind bends the trellis shadows]
[Music: A single violin line enters, gentle and warming]
[Sound: Wind through grasses; distant gulls]

You climb the ladder and the world opens into a slant of amber. The rooftop feels like a page turned — a private place for public decisions. The garden’s trellises throw lattice shadows over your hands; a faint salt spray reaches up from the sea. Elias follows, carrying his notebook, shoes soft against the worn decking.

He doesn't look like someone trying to convince you. He looks like someone trying to be present, which, you think, is rarer and sometimes more useful.

Elias Navarro: "The vote timeline compresses the negotiation. If Celeste's plan is on the docket, councilors will want a simple narrative: protect the promenade, stabilize property values. We need to frame a hybrid that reads as both protective and forward-looking."

You inhale the rooftop air — compost and sea and something herbaceous from the planters. You remember the people who plant beside you at the Commons, their hands stained with salt and soil. You imagine their faces in the council chamber under fluorescent lights.

You say, quietly: "I don't want us to be the ones arguing in reactive motion. We need something that holds people's livelihoods and the marsh together. Not a political slogan."

Elias: (after a pause) "I know. And I want that too. I also want to get practical measures in place so people don't lose income if a storm hits while we argue. It's not either/or for me, Mara."

His tone is steady; there's no rhetorical flourish, just an intention placed like a tool on the table. You sense—without making assumptions—his desire to bridge divides, and also the strain in his jaw that comes from drafting compromise in a town that feels things deeply.

You lean on the railing and let the warmth of the late sun rest on the back of your hand. Your internal voice tracks the rise of possibility. The vote could be the place where hybrid solutions are forged or where a polished plan crowds out everything else. The margin feels thin.

Elias: "I could walk the Commons with you. I could meet the gardeners, hear the stories. Or — if you think it helps — you could challenge Celeste at the forum first and set the public terms."

He looks at you then — something complex in his expression that you can't easily read. Is it caution? Deference? Both? The merged-path rules of your life make exactness impossible; you hold the ambiguity like a shell to your ear.

Your heartbeat picks up ever so slightly — still calm, but focused. The choice is less about right and wrong than about method. Do you pull Elias into the ground-level work where memory anchors models, or do you make a public stand that stakes out moral clarity and pressures the cooperative to answer plainly?

Elias: "Either way, I want to be there for the town and...for you, if you'll have me."

The words are small and honest. They land beside the decision like another possible scaffold. You think about your own guard — how you keep people at a practical distance until trust is shown, not spoken. There is a gentle tension between the political necessity and the personal openness his line invites.

You picture the Commons in your mind: boardwalks shining with tidewater, Rae tap-stenciling signs, Tommy's steady presence on the dock. You imagine the council chamber louder, a microphone and fluorescent lights and arguments sharpened into soundbites. Both are part of the path forward.

You find your voice, low and certain.

You: "We need to choose a mode that represents who we are. Whether it's inviting you into the Commons or taking the fight to Celeste publicly, the town has to see that our plan is rooted in place and people."

Elias watches you, unreadable and patient. The rooftop light drapes him in gold, and for a breath you allow yourself a quiet hope that a path exists where both protection and memory thrive.

The moment opens and narrows at once. You can already feel the rising current of the day, steady but not urgent — a tide building toward a vote.

[DECISION POINT — Choose your next step]
1) Invite Elias to the Commons for a hands-on tour -> TARGET chapter_id: 3
2) Confront Celeste publicly first -> TARGET chapter_id: 3

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Choose whether to invite Elias to the Commons for a hands-on tour or to confront Celeste publicly first",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Invite Elias to the Commons for a hands-on tour",
      "target_chapter_id": 3,
      "target_chapter_index": 3,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Confront Celeste publicly first",
      "target_chapter_id": 3,
      "target_chapter_index": 3,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}