[Scene: Emergency Coordination Center | Dawn — Storm Approaching]
[Visual: Fluorescent lights flicker over folding tables crowded with maps, satellite images, and coffee cups. A wall monitor loops a live weather feed—an angry spiral of blues and purples.]
[Sound: Low-frequency rumble of distant thunder; a constant, anxious undercurrent of radio chatter]
[Music: Tense percussion—rapid, clipped beats that mimic a hurried pulse]

You step into the center with rain in the collar of your jacket and salt in the air like a promise of things that will not stay gentle. The room smells of wet wool, printer toner, and the sharp citrus of hand sanitizer. People move with the clipped efficiency of those who have rehearsed crisis; some move like they are improvising survival.

Dr. Amina Bhatt is already at the long table, thumb pressed to a touchscreen, eyes bright and severe behind her glasses. Tommy is on the phone, voice low, the call punctuated by barked replies. Celeste Park stands near a bank of maps, hands folded so precisely they look like instruments. Elias is a few feet from you—his face lit by blue from a tablet, jaw working, gaze flicking between the storm model and the list of shelters.

Your chest feels too full and too small at once. The past six hours have measured you in breaths and commitments; now the sky takes its turn.

Mara (You): "What's the worst-case on surge height, Amina?" You force the question out like a tool, needing numbers to hold the panic at bay.

Dr. Amina: (without looking up) "Worst-case modeled surge is three meters above current high-tide lines within eighteen hours, variance plus or minus storm shift. Wind-driven waves could overtop sections of the Promenade that's already half-built." (She taps the screen; a jagged red line crawls up.) "Evacuation windows are shrinking."

A scrape of chairs. Someone curses. You taste metal.

Elias approaches, words ready, but he says nothing at first. His hands are steady, even as the room frays around them—an anchor you both want and resent.

Elias Navarro: "We can stage pumps at three critical points and run portable berms for low-lying blocks," he says. "If we prioritize the hospital and the longhouse first—"

Mara (You): "And the Commons?" Your voice breaks like a reef. "Saltwren sits lower than the promenade and—"

Elias: (his fingers tighten on the tablet) "—we load residents to the high school as the priority. The Commons is important, but we have limited manpower and the pumps buy time."

You see his logic in the angles of his shoulders—the engineer's clarity. You also feel it as a wedge. There are names and beds and seedlings in your head, and the syllables of "priority" hurt.

Tommy: (barging in, angry and quick) "Priority? Mara, there are fishing boats out on the bar still. People loading traps. We can't just talk pumps while folks are out there—"

Celeste: (calm, clipped) "We have to make triage choices now, not moral theater. The promenade's infrastructure protects the town's commercial spine. Fortify it, and we keep critical supply routes—"

Mara (You): "The commercial spine isn't a person, Celeste." Your words cut clean, sharper than you'd planned.

Celeste: (a small, controlled smile) "Neither are seedlings, Mara. Sometimes you have to pick the parts that keep the rest alive."

Amina closes her eyes for a brief, harried breath. "We don't have 'the rest' if surge breaches the hospital zone. We need hard decisions. I'm laying out casualty-risk matrices and shelter projections now."

The room contracts on itself with the press of that sentence. Decision-making becomes a scalpel.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Order volunteers to secure the Commons boardwalks") -> Reaction: "You call out names—Rae, Tommy, a handful of locals. They go with mud-smeared boots and quick hands, moving like a swarm to rope down planters and lift seedlings into crates." || Choice B ("Direct volunteers to the Promenade pumps") -> Reaction: "You point toward the half-finished concrete, toward the pumps stacked in crates. Volunteers grunt, shifting boxes and dragging hoses with the heavy focus of people given a physical task."]


[Scene: Town Streets / The Promenade Access Road | Morning — Wind Picking Up]
[Visual: Rain slants sideways. Street lamps blur into vertical streaks of amber. Survey flags whip like wounded birds.]
[Sound: Sirens wail intermittently; the howl of wind through scaffolding; boards and tarps flapping]
[Music: Rapid strings and brass—urgent, slicing]

You drive a company truck—borrowed, essential—toward the Promenade. Gravel kicks at the wheel wells. Water beads on the windshield and runs into streaks that erase the world into smeared promises and threats. Your hands are numb at the base of the palm.

Elias rides in with you; his face is close in the rearview mirror. He's been moving between nodes—lab, field, center—like a human relay. His mouth is set; you want to ask whether he thinks of your sibling when he makes triage lists, but the words would be a torch in a room full of papers.

Elias Navarro: "We're contingent on the tide clocks," he says sharply, leaning forward. "If the surge hits from the southwest as modeled, the lower promenade will be underwater within four hours. We can either try to bolster the incomplete wall—"

Mara (You): "Or leave it and move people. I saw Rae with a boat list." Your voice is a dry thing. "There are residents on the low pier who'll be cut off."

Elias: (frustration threads into his calm) "If we split teams, we dilute our effectiveness. Pumps and berms are concentrated solutions. Scattered rescues without coordination create more hazards."

Mara (You): "Scattered rescues sometimes save a single life that protocols write off." Your jaw aches with old grief. "We can't let 'effectiveness' be a way to avoid who is standing in front of us."

Elias bites his lip. For a second his engineer's clarity and his human hesitancy wrestle in his eyes. He opens his mouth, then closes it.

Elias Navarro: "Okay. We can do both—if we can get a tactical team to the pier while another sets the pumps. But I need chains of command. I need communication channels that won't fail if the grid goes."

You think of radios, of hand signals. You think of your sibling's small, quick laugh. Memory is a splinter you keep in your mouth.

Tommy, on the truck bed, shoves a stack of sandbags. "People are saying the captain from the North cove won't risk his crew without a municipal blessing. If the town says 'go', he says 'go'." His voice is raw with the barter of trust.

Elias: (urgent, low) "I can call the coordinator there—maybe leverage my connection at the institute. But the institute's directive is to avoid unlicensed salvage unless it's assessed. That looks like me siding with bureaucracy, Mara, but—"

Mara (You): "—but bureaucracy is already here," you finish for him, slamming the steering wheel with a palm that leaves a wet print.

Elias turns to you, and for a beat—just a beat—his face is unreadable, complex. He looks like someone standing on two plans at once: the one with the neat lines and the one with the messy lives.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Push Elias to radio the North cove captain directly") -> Reaction: "You tell him to call. He hesitates, then opens his tablet and keys the number, voice professional but threaded with something like apology." || Choice B ("Ask him to secure the pumps and let Tommy handle outreach") -> Reaction: "You hand Tommy a list and point. Elias snaps to the logistical task, eyes already mapping workflows; Tommy nods, relieved to have a concrete role."]


[Scene: Saltwren Commons | Midday — Water Licking at the Margins]
[Visual: Boardwalks glisten; raised beds half-submerged. A crate of seedlings floats, a soft green ghost in muddy water.]
[Sound: The creak of soaked wood, a child's distant cry, the stuttering clip of a two-way radio]
[Music: Dissonant piano underlaid with anxious cello—melodic fragments that don't resolve]

You arrive at Saltwren feeling like you've been pulled through an undertow and spat onto a place you made. Rae is there, soaked to the waist, face streaked with paint and rain. Volunteers bundle herbs into crates. A group of elders huddle in a patched gazebo, wrapped in emergency blankets like fragile statues.

Your hands move before you think—lifting, bundling, giving directions in short, counted breaths. Leadership in a storm is mostly yelling less and pointing more. Still—beneath the motions—your mind catalogues the impossible: seedlings, compost, the bench where your sibling used to sit.

Mara (You): "We need evacuation lanes open. Two boats on the east channel, volunteers to shuttle elders, someone to anchor the boardwalk." Your voice is thin, but it commands what it must.

Rae: (breathing hard, fierce) "I've got the boat roster. Tommy's pulling lines. But the kids from the school—half of them are downstairs, and one teacher says the generator died."

You swallow. A small, hot panic rises. The Commons isn't just plants; it's memory and people.

Amina approaches, hands dirty, her face a study in exhausted calculation.

Dr. Amina: "We can triage medical needs here for the next hour—stabilize, then ship critical cases to the high school. But the road to the school might be impassable if the surge rounds the lighthouse."

Celeste appears at the edge of the boardwalk, the hem of her coat clean despite the weather. She surveys the scene clinically.

Celeste Park: "If we secure the promenade first, we secure the logistics to support folks at the Commons. The funding and structure keep the supply chain running—nobody's saying the Commons isn't important, but structural integrity is the multiplier."

Mara (You): "We don't talk multipliers when someone's oxygen tank is failing." Your voice fractures.

Celeste: (too patient) "I offer the funding now, Mara. Lock in the contract with the municipality and I can redirect crews for reinforcing walkways."

Mara feels like she is being offered a bandage on a broken limb. You notice Elias listening, hands folded into the familiar posture that looks like negotiation.

Elias Navarro: "Celeste, we don't have time for legal intramuscles. If you're offering crews, we can stage them to shore up weak points now—on an ad-hoc basis. But I need commitment: equipment access, chain-of-command, and a person to report to on the ground."

Celeste: (a slow nod, careful smile) "I'll assign a liaison. But we move fast. Contracts can follow when the town is—"

Mara (You): "When the town is still standing?" You laugh once, a sound too sharp to be comforting. "Contracts don't hold people."

The argument hangs between you like a strand. Underneath, Elias watches you both, deciding which side of himself gives first.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Accept Celeste's crews now despite the strings") -> Reaction: "You agree. Celeste's liaison arrives within minutes with teams in clean yellow jackets. They work efficiently—fast hands and hard eyes—but your gut twists at their clinical distance." || Choice B ("Refuse and keep the Commons' resources purely community-run") -> Reaction: "You shake your head. Volunteers exchange looks—pride and fear braided together. They double down on manual work; it's slower, muddier, but it feels like you are choosing people over promises."]

[Scene: Promenade Construction / Half-Finished Floodwall | Afternoon — Surge Window Narrowing]
[Visual: Concrete ribs jut from the sand like exposed bones. A temporary pump hums badly, struggling. The sky tears open in a sheet of rain.]
[Sound: A harrowing chorus—wails, shouted commands, the sudden slam of a door against a gust; radios crackle with fragmented coordinates]
[Music: Percussion erupts into a drumroll—taut, relentless]

Word runs through the phones: the surge is shifting, moving faster along a new vector. The predicted curtain of water is an inch closer with every breath. The center of command erupts into a thousand micro-decisions that feel like dropping stones into a fragile dam.

You find yourself at the line where the tide meets human will. People are forming into chains. Boats clack against a wet dock. An ambulance arrives, lights doing nothing in the rain. You are a thread in a tug-of-war: community, engineering, politics.

Elias meets you by the pump, rain spitting across his face. He looks tired in a new way—like someone who has been balancing two lives on the tip of a pencil for too long.

Elias Navarro: "We can seal the pump intake with mattresses and sandbags to buy another hour, then use those hours to get evac teams through the east channel." He says it like a plan, but the words tremble.

Mara (You): "How many boats can we realistically get out?" You ask, pressing for the human metric.

Elias: (counting silently) "Three at once, if we coordinate—two for elders and medical, one for supplies. If the captain from the North cove comes, maybe four. But if the wind shifts again, that drops."

Your throat tightens. Your hands remember the timing of tides like a childhood map. You map where people will be cut off, who will be on which side of greed and mercy.

Tommy: (nearby, shouting over the wind) "There's a group on the lower pier—two kids and a teacher. They can't climb the ladder if the wave hits at the crest."

Elias: (fast, small voice) "We rig a lifeline, a pulley; I know how—" He meets your eyes then, searching for permission and for something else you can't name.

Mara (You): "Or we take the boat and go—now." Your decision arrives like a physical thing, heavy and hot.

Elias's hand hovers near the radio. He looks at the emergency coordinator's roster, the institute's logo on his tablet, the municipal seal on a laminated instruction set. He breathes out slow.

Elias Navarro: "If I radio for an unauthorized dispatch, the official report will note the breach. They may remove funding—" He doesn't finish. The calculus is visible on his face: career, reputation, the machine that can save more people later versus the immediate who stand before you.

You step closer. The wind tries to take your words.

Mara (You): "If you don't, people might die now. Funding isn't a person. Not yet."

Elias swallows. For a second he looks like he could reach for the radio and crush it, or hand it to you and let you make that choice for him.

You can hear the ocean getting closer, a sound like a thousand soft feet moving to claim what was once their place.

[Sound: A sudden, sharp alarm blares on the radio—an automated surge alert. The room collectively inhales.]

Your chest is a drumhead. Memory folds over memory—your sibling's laugh, the smell of wet soil after a summer storm, the quiet of the rooftop after hours of planting. The past presses at the present with the weight of consequence.

You realize, with a clarity that is almost obscene in its cruelty, that triage is a word that eats people. It assigns worth with a pencil and a spreadsheet. Triage asks you to trade one life for the possibility of saving five. Triage asks you to be patient while the sea is not.

Mara (You): "We have to decide who goes on the first run."

Elias's face is complex, unreadable in a way that contains guilt, calculation, love, and an apology he has not yet found words for. The air tastes like copper and salt.

You feel the world condense to the list in your chest: elders on one side, the teacher and children on the dock, the hospital's ICU, the Commons' makeshift ward. Every name is a knot on the rope you are about to cut or to clutch.

[Visual: Close on Mara's hands—wet, trembling, the dried leaf still under her thumbnail from the hearing. Rain blurs the edges of the world.]
[Music: All instruments pull taut—then cut to a single, piercing sustained note that holds the space like a held breath]

You know the options, and you know the cost. The sea waits with the patient cruelty of inevitability.

You open your mouth to speak.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 15
}