[Scene: Saltwren Commons | Dawn — hours after the storm]
[Visual: Boardwalks ripped; raised beds overturned; a sagging noticeboard flaps on a single hinge]
[Sound: The gulls are gone; only the low, persistent groan of distant pumps and the rattling of loose tarps; someone sobs and it echoes]
[Music: Jagged strings; percussion like distant hailstones]

You open your eyes to a world that remembers the thunder before you do. The Commons smells of salt and diesel and the sweeter tang of turned earth — topsoil and compost mixed with something metallic and wrong. Your throat feels like sand. Every breath is too loud.

You move because there is motion to match: hands reaching, boots sloshing through water, a shout cut short by the wind. Rae is crouched among the overturned planters, face streaked with rain and mud, camera dangling like a talisman. Tommy is there too, sleeves drenched, hauling a sodden pallet with two other volunteers as if it were a body he knows how to carry.

Elias is on the boardwalk: his shirt is plastered to him, notebook gone, wristband blinking uselessly with salt. When he sees you, his face collapses into a look that is equal parts apology and alarm — the kind of expression that shows you both the person he wants to be and the person the water has made him that morning.

Elias: "Mara— we lost the west ramp. Vegetation lines are gone. I ran the sensors; the pumps—" (He stops, because there are words he can't make fit between syllables.)

You don't wait for the rest. You taste grief in the back of your mouth and it anchors you. The Commons is a bruise on the land: trellises snapped like ribs, the children's mural half-submerged, the marsh pools churning with debris.

Narration: You think of the sibling you lost, of the image that will not leave you: water where there should have been a kitchen. That memory is a small, hot shard that makes your hands clench. You move through the ruined rows, touch sod that has been unmade. The sensation is immediate — slick, cool, grainy between your fingers — and it tells you, without argument, what the storm didn't take: people's presence. Whoever it is still here, or here enough to be helped.

[Visual: Close on Rae's hands shaking as she passes you a soaked notebook]
[Sound: A groan, then a cry — someone calling a name you recognize in a voice stripped thin]
[Music: A metallic violin riff increases tempo]

Rae: "We pulled Ms. Ortega from under the greenhouse framing, but her daughter's still—" (She can't finish; she clamps her jaw and points toward a water-churned dune.)

Tommy: "Skiff teams are out. But the promenade— it folded in places. There's people pinned between concrete and steel." (He spits saltwater and the word 'pinned' lands like a stone. His hands are steady; his voice is not.)

You feel the air change — not just the pressure after a storm, but the gravity of triage. Decisions will be made in minutes that will echo for years.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Run to the promenade to coordinate rescues") -> Reaction: "Your feet move before your brain: spray stings your face as you sprint, calling instructions into a throat that has forgotten its steadiness. At the promenade, you find half a collapsed wall and a line of hands passing out children wrapped in tarps." || Choice B ("Stay and organize survivors at the Commons") -> Reaction: "You bend over the overturned planter and start barking orders: who to check for hypothermia, who to collect blankets, who to catalog the lost seed stocks. Eyes find you and follow. For a moment the Commons becomes a point of gravity again."]

You choose in the instant that separates breath from action — but the choice doesn't erase the noise. Both places need you.

[Scene: Solhaven Promenade | Dawn — battered and dangerous]
[Visual: Jagged concrete jutting like a teeth-line; a half-submerged sign spins on its chain; floodlights swing, throwing sharp shadows]
[Sound: Metal creaking under load; radios squawking; water slapping the newly exposed rebar]
[Music: Percussion spikes; low brass undercurrent]

You arrive to find the promenade more monstrous than memory allows — a spatial betrayal. Where community had once walked and argued and watched the tide, there is now a corridor of trapped bodies and twisted infrastructure. The development banners you had seen months ago are shredded and floating; their slogans hang like accusations in the gutters.

Someone calls your name, but you cannot tell if it is Elias or Celeste. The two of them are near each other in the wreckage, two figures scalloped by salt and light and the cost of trying to make the sea behave.

Celeste's coat is a jagged silhouette: immaculate edges ruined, but the dresser's posture stubbornly intact. She looks at the damage like a strategist reads a collapsed game board — calculating, cataloguing. You cannot read her entirely; her face is complex, a study in compressed impulses. This is the Schrödinger look you've learned: unreadable, a ledger you cannot balance by sight alone.

Elias is beside her, shirt clinging, voice raw. He keeps reaching for plans that have become water-ruined relics. He tries to make space with language; words don't stitch wounds.

Elias: "We need to prioritize structural extraction at Sector C. Heavy lifts only from the upper access." (He glances at you, then at a patch of wall where a hand is visible beneath rebar.) "If we pull wrong, we lose the corridor."

Celeste: (Her voice is crisp, a blade) "We don't have time for hypotheticals. Get me a path to evacuate the commercial storefronts — investors are already calling. We secure funding for repairs, we secure shelter for survivors. That's immediate leverage."

You stand between them like a hinge. The storm has given your disagreements teeth.

Narration: The debate is meaningless to the person pinned beneath a beam. Theories and funding calls do not undo wood on ribcages. The world narrows to the living who are still conscious, to the small shoals of air under collapsed ceilings and the frantic, blinding need to reach them.

[Music: Tempo increases; violins staccato; a sudden, high metallic ping as a support cable snaps]
[Sound: A new, keening cry — someone trapped farther down; a child. People surge like flocks.]

Elias turns to you, voice splitting with the attempt to be decisive and human.

Elias: "Mara, we can route the cranes to the north access, but it will take—" (He stops and swallows water-saturated air.) "I need you to make the call on volunteer triage. Your teams know the Commons patterns; they'll improvise."

You feel the weight of that request as if it were physical. His hand finds yours in the press — for a second, contact as promise. It is full of things unsaid: guilt, the shared memory of earlier alliances, the tidal knowledge that science and neighborhood can't always be disentangled.

Mara (You): "We do the people first. Stabilize, pull, and move. Then we clear the path for lifts." (Your words are a hammer. You say them over the roar.)

Celeste: (A low exhale) "And the commercial claims? If we let those collapse completely, the funding dries. That risks long-term displacement."

Mara (You): "Long-term displacement is already happening." (You match her — and there it is: under your practical voice, the tremor. You have been carrying too much.)

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Order volunteers to the pinned families now") -> Reaction: "You shout names and directions. Hands tighten around yours in acknowledgement; a human chain forms and the first person is extracted — coughing, alive, but shrieking with a grief that will not be soothed by survival alone." || Choice B ("Demand Celeste delay commercial evacuations and commit cranes") -> Reaction: "You point at Celeste and hold her gaze. For a long, unbearable second she measures the image of her development plans against the bodies at her feet and the call light in her pocket. Her jaw tightens; her reply is a thin, dangerous thing."]

The moment you speak, the storm answers: a new tremor runs through the concrete as if the land were giving a last shudder. A section of boardwalk collapses farther up, and the noise is like a hand slamming a door on hope. People scream. Someone falls — then someone else reaches — then you are running again.

[Scene: Various Neighborhoods | Midday — neighborhoods silted and changed]
[Visual: Houses mottled with mud lines; one porch hangs over a sunken yard; a child's toy floats in a puddle like an accusation]
[Sound: Generator hums, volunteer radios, the distant wail of emergency sirens]
[Music: Distorted, slowed strings; an undertow of low cellos]

You go door to door because you know what grief does when it waits: it calcifies. People who were yesterday neighbors are now a catalog of needs. An old woman takes your hand and doesn't let go; you taste the iron in your mouth and recognize it as the same grief your family buried years ago. A boy hands you a soaked drawing of a house with the sky colored red. You fold it into your pocket because you cannot take everything else.

Dr. Amina appears at your shoulder as if summoned, hair in a loose bun threaded with salt, instruments dangling from satchels. She is clinical in a way that still leaves room for the human.

Dr. Amina: "We need to triage where contamination risk is highest. Nutrient runoff is elevated. We have to mark the wells." (She speaks fast, the cadence of someone used to translating science into rescue.)

Mara (You): "Do it. Block the wells. Get volunteers to the shelters that still have heat. Tell me which neighborhoods are unsecured." (You name places the town has been trying to protect for years — you say them as if they are children.)

Dr. Amina: "And the data?" (She looks at Elias, who is still trying to pull support cables.)

Elias: "We lost a lot of logs, but the arrays kept running long enough to give us tide graphs. We can predict the next surge window." (He nods toward the sea: a dark band at the horizon that looks like a held breath.) "We have one twelve-minute window before the tide's echo could push again."

You feel the twelve-minute window like a countdown in both your ears. Twelve minutes to redirect people away from where the land will fail again.

Narration: Time telescopes. Minutes stretch and compress. The world reduces to immediate rescue and immediate consequences. You have never felt so small and so absolutely necessary.

[Music: Percussion races; timpani roll; high strings scream]
[Sound: A siren goes from distant to deafening; a sliding thunk as a relief container shifts]

Tommy grabs you by the arm, eyes white with a fury that is half despair and half a familiar stubbornness.

Tommy: "There's a group by the old mill roof. Kids, maybe. They might have thought the mill was safe. We need to get them off before the next surge." (He keeps talking even as his voice cracks, because there is no time for silence.)

Mara (You): "I'll handle the mill. You get the skiffs ready." (You find yourself issuing commands like incantations.)

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Lead a small team to the Old Mill rooftop") -> Reaction: "You climb the rope ladder with three volunteers, each rung clanging underweight and panic. The rooftop is half-derelict; a child's laughter, thin and frightened, guides you to a trio of shivering teens. You sling them into blankets and pass them down the line like a blessing." || Choice B ("Hold the Commons as a triage hub") -> Reaction: "You stop at the Commons and convert the largest shelter into a triage center, barking for medkits and warmth. You watch as the first waves of rescued people are brought in, and your hands tremble while administering whatever comfort you can."]

You pick and you act. The world does not wait.

[Scene: Reconstruction Site / Makeshift Field Hospital | Late Afternoon — exhausted adrenaline]
[Visual: Tents sagging under weight; lanterns swinging; a table now stacked with plastered lists of names and people]
[Sound: The dull, relentless grind of conversation; someone vomiting in a corner; a baby crying]
[Music: A single violin note— long, then pulled taut]

The day becomes a haze of pulls and lifts, of hands and the small, miraculous sounds of someone re-breathing on the wrong side of drowning.

At some point the shouting parts and the plaintive parts weave together. Celeste corners you beside a tarp. There is mud on her cuff, and when she speaks the words are quieter than before.

Celeste: "Mara." (She hesitates.) "There will be costs. There will be an accounting. We can— I can marshal funds, insurance payouts, private donors. I can make sure rebuilding happens quickly."

You look at her and see not the polished planner you once judged, but someone rawened by the same water. The posture is the same; the edges have been softened by grief.

Mara (You): "Quickly doesn't mean right." (Your voice is a blade tempered by exhaustion.) "If we let the same infrastructure that failed stand, we'll just be back here after the next one. This is not a ledger; it's people's lives."

Celeste: (A tilt of her head, almost like listening) "And if we don't secure immediate funding, people will be displaced — permanently. They can't wait for the perfect solution."

Mara (You): "People already waited. They already bled for delays and politics." (You reach out and push soil out of someone's hair; the action is small but intimate.)

Elias arrives then, mouth set, eyes rimmed with salt. He stands beside you both, and for a dizzy instant you are three poles in a storm — not aligned and not opposite, but entangled.

Elias: "There is a way to phase this. Immediate shore stabilization, combined with targeted living shorelines. We can freeze parcels for relocation assistance and get a legal covenant in place that binds reconstruction to resilience standards. But it requires oversight, enforceable language, and—"

Celeste: "Money." (She says it plainly.) "And political capital."

Elias: "And community buy-in." (He looks at you, the scientist pleading for trust in the messy world of hearts and history.)

Narration: The conversation teeters between policy and pulse. You feel the dead weight of all the citizens whose futures will be negotiated in the next days. You imagine forms and meetings and lawsuits. You imagine the young families you saw today and the old woman who clutched your hand and won't sleep because the house that sheltered her for decades has a new lip of mud where her threshold used to be.

[Music: A discordant swell; a high note, then silence]

You think of the sibling again — not as memory now but as measure. The choice before you is not simple: there is an ethical overhead that will never be erased by quick fixes nor by inaction. You have no desire to make the wrong kind of peace.

Elias steps closer. He is mud-streaked and exhausted and he reaches for you with a precarious, human steadiness.

Elias: "Mara, I—" (He inhales.) "I want to do right by this place. I want to be on the same side as you. If there is a way to build a hybrid that keeps people safe now and respects the marsh, I'll fight for it. But I need your trust to push compromise through the county. I need you in the room with me."

You see the plea: not a contract, but a request that the two of you place yourselves into a folding partnership that will require sacrifices neither of you wants to make alone.

Narration: Everything inside you pulls. Trust is not a simple switch; it's built in moments like this, in shared exhaustion and the choice to stand in the rain together. But you also have the taste of betrayal on your tongue from earlier compromises, from promises made and then folded under weight. The world has taught you that good intentions can be weaponized.

[Music: Drums ratchet up toward a climatic cadence]
[Sound: A distant metallic groan — something structural failing; then a sudden, horrible silence]

At that instant, a new sound arrives: a child's voice barely audible above the hush, then a heavier noise — the creak of a support giving way over the high-water mark. People shout. Someone pushes a wheeled stretcher. A beam snaps and a shower of debris rains down, nearer than you'd like.

Elias grabs your arm with forced calm. Celeste inhales, jaw clenched. Dr. Amina's fingers brush the paperwork in her satchel as if it were a sacred object.

For one precise, terrible second, the future is a hinge balanced over a gulf.

Mara (You): (Your internal monologue is a razor here — every memory, every loss, every small triumph compressed into the choice you're about to make. If you step one way, lives are immediately prioritized but political leverage may be lost. If you step the other, you might secure the means for long-term protection while people suffer now. There is no simple correct. There is only consequence.)

You find that you cannot breathe around the enormity. Your hands feel like they belong to someone else: shaking, necessary, decisive. You are being asked to bind the whole town's wound with a choice that cannot be unmade.

[Music: A final surge — strings scream; percussion is relentless, a pounding like a heartbeat racing to the point of rupture]
[Sound: The roar of the sea at the horizon grows; the sky darkens like a fist]

You raise your voice. The room — the tarp-lit field, the huddle of sodden bodies, the eyes — tilts toward you as if toward the last lighthouse.

Mara (You): "We—"

You pause because the word you are about to speak will lock the next years. The air tastes of salt and the static of radios and something else — the metallic flavor of decision.

[Visual: Close on your hand, suspended mid-air; camera pull back to show the three of you: you, Elias, Celeste — and the town holding its breath]

[Music: Abrupt cut to a single, sustained low chord that reverberates]

You stop.

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}