[Scene: Harborfront — Protest Line | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: A crowd packed along the boardwalk; bright protest badges dot raincoats; patchwork tarps flap like banners]
[Sound: Waves hitting pilings; a distant ambulance siren threaded with chants; a megaphone crackles]
[Music: Rapid, driving percussion layered with swelling strings — urgent, forward-moving]

You taste salt and adrenaline. The leaked footage spins across every screen—Jonah's presentation reels cut raw with contractor estimates, line items that translate into lost plots and privatized promenades. Someone beside you hands you a damp badge; Kira's grin flashes under a hood, fierce as a flare.

Kira Tseng: "They thought they could buy silence. They didn't count on you, on all of us."

You tighten your grip around the vial at your throat, the tiny glass warming from your palm. The crowd presses like a living tide: faces you know—storekeepers, schoolteachers, Mateo's old hat bobbing—and people you haven't met carrying rain-soaked signs. The air smells of wet wood, hot coffee from a vendor, and the metallic edge of tension.

You step forward beside Kira, your voice caught between the megaphone's boom and the hum of a thousand private decisions becoming public.

You (Ayla Moreno): "We make them see what they're erasing."

Kira Tseng: (laughing, breathless) "Good line. You should say that into the mic."

You find the mic. Your voice folds into the square, small at first and then catching like a current.

You (Ayla Moreno): "This waterfront is not a commodity. It's a memory, a meal, a home. We will not let it become someone else's safe bet."

The chant rises. You feel it—solid and reverberant, like wooden pilings answering the ocean's swell. Cameras angle in, fingers of light catch on wet cheeks and the silver of Jonah's renderings splashed across a dozen screens.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step up to the main camera and summarize the leak for the crowd") -> Reaction: "You move into frame, the microscope of attention narrowing to you. Your summary is precise, voice steady—figures named, contracts quoted. People nod, the chant pauses, then resolves into a deeper roar." || Choice B ("Pull Kira aside and coordinate a route for the march to the inquiry") -> Reaction: "You huddle under a tarp. Kira's planning is tidal—quick, decisive. You map the safer streets, assign marshals, and watch the crowd begin to move with the kind of order that can redirect outrage into something that changes laws."]

[Scene: Media Hub — Live Feeds | Early Evening]
[Visual: Rows of monitors displaying the leaked footage from multiple angles; your face occasionally reflected in glossy screens]
[Sound: Keyboard clacks, producer voices overlapping; the low hum of servers]
[Music: Electronic pulse, building intensity]

Elias's models appear on a half-dozen feeds—transparent contingency layers, alternatives that show how selective engineering can protect critical infrastructure without monopolizing waterfront land. He speaks on a livestream panel, measured and fierce, his hands framing simulations as if sketching shelter for the city.

Elias Rook: "We can identify priority zones for hard protection and complement them with managed retreats, green belts, and legal stewardship. It's not either-or; it's layered."

You watch him and feel the old familiarity of shared problem-solving, the thread that pulled you together in the first place. He meets your eyes on screen for a breath, then points to a part of the model—your green roofs—lings highlighted in green like small islands of resistance.

You (Ayla Moreno): "Make sure the models show enforceable protections. Not just lines on a map."

Elias Rook: (nodding) "I'm including covenant language—legally binding community-held easements. We'll publish the code, make it auditable."

The producers cut to Mayor Serena's statement in the next feed. Her voice is steady but raw, the city-status balancing act audible in each syllable.

Mayor Serena Okoye (on screen): "Given the severity of these revelations and the public response, I am initiating an immediate freeze on expedited approvals and commissioning an independent oversight panel. Transparency will be our north star."

A cheer rolls through the crowd even from where you stand in the media hub. The news crawls across the bottom of the screen: CONTRACT FROZEN — INDEPENDENT PANEL APPOINTED. High arousal spikes through you like a hot wind.

[Scene: Public Inquiry Room | Night — Packed Hearing]
[Visual: Fluorescent lights buzz over long tables. Stacks of documents steam in the chill. Microphones line the dais.]
[Sound: Chairs scraping, muffled sobs, a courtroom-like hush that trembles and then snaps]
[Music: Tense strings that resolve into a bright, ascending motif as testimonies shift the room]

You sit at the witness table with papers flattened beneath your palms. Jonah enters like a storm in an expensive jacket—smile rehearsed, eyes steely. He meets your gaze and for an instant his expression is complex, not the fierce opposition you rehearsed for but something that carries the weight of ambition and the friction of being challenged publicly.

Jonah Hale: (smoothly) "Ayla, you and your allies are making noise, but we have lives to protect. My proposal saves insurance claims. It saves investors. It saves people."

You: (voice tight) "It does more than that, Jonah. It reorders who makes decisions about safety. It assigns value to property over people. That's what we're fighting."

The room listens as Mateo is called to testify. He walks slowly, his hands smelling of fish and old rope, the kind of presence that fills a room without sound.

Mateo Alvarez: (clear, steady) "I've fished these waters since the tide was kinder. My father tied boats here. You build walls for the market, but you forget the people who mend nets at night. You cannot measure the cost of losing those hands."

His words land like stones. A journalist scribbles, a camera clicks. Kira's badge is bright at the back, her mouth set, eyes wet. Public sentiment is a tide that rises and fills every crevice in the chamber.

You feel Elias beside you, his hand a steadying weight at the small of your back. He's quieter in person than the panels—closer somehow than the models. Multiple turns of conversation unfurl between the two of you at the table, urgent and honest.

Elias Rook: (low) "I revised the model this morning. It includes an audit trail, independent triggers for review, community oversight nodes. Legal teams can attach covenants to parcels—no surprise sales, no secret buyouts."

You (Ayla Moreno): "Good. Make those models public. Let them see what alternatives look like."

Elias Rook: (hesitating) "I want to. But we need to protect the integrity of the data—make sure it's peer-reviewed."

You (Ayla Moreno): (softly) "Then let it be reviewed by the people who live here. Let them be the peer reviewers."

He considers you, eyes flicking to the dais where Mayor Serena watches, the city's weight in her posture.

Mayor Serena Okoye: (after a pause) "This panel will include independent engineers, community representatives, and legal counsel. The contract is paused pending transparent review."

A roar breaks out in the room and outside. High arousal hits a new crest—relief braided with adrenaline. You exhale a sound that is almost a laugh and almost a sob.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask the panel chair for immediate public minutes of the review process") -> Reaction: "You lean forward, voice steady as a tide mark. The chair nods; clerks shuffle. Within hours, the panel releases an initial timeline and a portal for public submissions—your demand translated into action." || Choice B ("Step outside to the press line and speak about next steps with Kira") -> Reaction: "Outside, the cold air bites. Kira and you map the next week's actions—town meetings, legal aid clinics. Cameras catch you smiling, exhausted and ferocious, and the footage goes viral."]

[Scene: Oversight Panel Venue — Early Morning | Press Conference]
[Visual: A temporary dais with mixed faces—scientists, activists, legal counsel—against the grey of the harbor]
[Sound: Microphones pop; flashes; people murmuring like small waves]
[Music: Triumphant brass motifs layered over steady percussion]

The panel's first findings are clear enough to be useful and incomplete enough to require work. Jonah's proposal is not thrown away—far from it—but stripped of its stealth, retooled with contingencies, and subject to public audit. The press calls it a compromise; you call it a victory that tastes of iron and bread.

Mayor Serena Okoye: "Our city will adopt a layered strategy: where necessary, targeted engineering; where possible, community-managed green belts; legal protections for existing gardens; and a public audit mechanism. Implementation will be phased with oversight."

You look at the assembled faces—the ones who fought with you and those who opposed you, now present in uneasy truce. Elias stands beside you, an arm brushing your shoulder, neither an answer nor a question but a steadying presence.

Jonah Hale: (to you, voice tighter than before) "We will work with the panel. I will revisit the models and include your input."

You: (measured) "We'll be watching. That includes the gardens. That includes the people who won't be in your spreadsheets."

Jonah Hale: (a pause) "Understood."

The crowd outside the venue roars again. Kira climbs a crate and sings a line of an old harbor song; the crowd answers like a chorus. The city, in fragments, breathes in relief.

[Scene: Community Greenhouse — Dawn]
[Visual: Condensation beads on the glass; first light slips like a promise across leaves; hands in soil]
[Sound: Soft footsteps on wet gravel; the quiet drip of watering cans; the distant call of gulls]
[Music: Quiet, warm strings that still carry the echo of brass—resolute and gentle]

You return to the greenhouse with Elias, Kira, and Mateo, and a small band of neighbors. The day's work is immediate: seed trays to label, soil to turn, a ledger to update with new covenants executed the night before. Sunlight comes up over the seawall models in the distance, gilding a skyline of cranes and cranes and hope.

Mateo Alvarez: (smiling) "We didn't get everything. But we kept our roots."

Kira Tseng: (wiping soil on her cheek) "And now we make sure the roots are protected."

Elias Rook: (kneeling beside you, hands in compost) "You were right to push. Public oversight makes the models better. It makes the engineering accountable."

You press soil between your fingers and feel the damp, the small persistence of life. Your relationship with Elias is not a neat bow; it is compost and seed—messy, necessary.

You (Ayla Moreno): "We'll keep watch. We make the covenants airtight. We teach people how to grow and how to read a contract."

Elias Rook: (softly) "And I'll keep bringing data to the table. Not to dominate, but to translate what we feel into what we can prove."

The two of you exchange a look that carries the accumulated friction of fights and the smoothing of hard-won understanding. Dialogue stretches, halts, and returns.

You (Ayla Moreno): "This work is slow."

Elias Rook: (smiling, honest) "Slow is honest."

You both laugh, a small buoyant sound that feels like a bell. Around you, hands move: a ledger flips, a signing pen scratches legal language that will keep soil in friendly hands. It's imperfect, full of margin notes and conditional clauses, but it exists.

[Music: Swelling strings reach a warm peak]
[Visual: Close on your hands—soil-streaked, the seed vial at your throat catching the dawn; a printed covenant sits nearby with scrawled signatures]
[Sound: A chorus of small sounds—laughter, a child's voice, the distant clang of harbor work resuming]

You look out over the harbor where some parcels remain in flux, where cranes still loom and the seawall's shadow stretches like a question. But the frozen contract, the oversight panel, the public audit—these are real brakes on the purely privatizing machine Jonah set in motion. The city's path becomes a patchwork: parts engineered, parts reclaimed, all under a public eye.

You feel, in the marrow of your hands, that this is not an ending but a beginning threaded through with constancy. The work will continue with new meetings, new fights, new seedlings. You do not promise perfection; you promise presence.

Elias squeezes your shoulder—no grand gesture, only the simple closeness of companionable intent.

Elias Rook: "Tomorrow we'll map the next steps."

You (Ayla Moreno): "Tomorrow we'll plant."

[Visual: The camera pulls back from the greenhouse; the harbor frame widens, cranes and green roofs both in view]
[Music: Final chord—bright, unresolved in the best way; a promise, not a period]

You breathe, and the breath tastes of wet soil and lemon polish and something softer—hope that is not naive but earned. You tuck the seed vial under your shirt, close your notebook, and stand. Around you, people bend toward work with a steady, fierce gentleness.

You have won a hard clarity: exposure can fracture false certainties, public pressure can rework private plans, and love can be rebuilt not as shelter from the world but as a companion through it.

[Visual: Fade to soft gold as dawn strengthens]
[Music: Fade to the lingering warmth of strings]
[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}