[Scene: The Green Roof Network | Dawn]
[Visual: Wide shot of layered terraces, early gray sky, fairy lights dim against damp soil]
[Music: Soft ambient, distant water lapping, low synth hum]
[Sound: Gull calls, a faint mechanical clank from a distant crane, paper rustling]

You wake with soil in the bite of your teeth — not literal, just the memory of it: the dry shape of a ridge you pressed your palm into last season. Your chestnut hair is knotted at the nape, tips sun-pale and stubborn. A stray tendril brushes your hazel eye as you let your fingers find the glass vial at your throat, the seed packets inside rattling like a small, dry promise.

The rooftop smells like the harbor and rain: a clean, mineral salt that sits behind the warm wetness of turned earth. Fairy lights are still cool to the touch where they drape between pallets; beads of condensation cling to a reclaimed wooden planter. The beds are stitched together from boards with names written on them in marker — a messy, durable handwriting that feels like family.

You sit up. The city horizon is a low sentence of cranes, chimneys, and the angular silhouette of a half-built seawall far beyond the nearest pier. When you pull the tablet from beneath a burlap sack, Jonah’s renderings laugh at you in glossy color — a plaza that looks like a different climate entirely, warm LEDs and taut trees planted in sculpted concrete. They glitter and are wrong; they are photographs of a future that did not grow here.

A crate nearby squeaks. Kira’s raincoat — ink-blue and patched with a dozen protest badges — flaps as she pulls out a stack of folded flyers. Her hands move quick and efficient, the same way she moves when she strings a banner between two lamp posts. She looks up when you do and holds a flyer out like an offering.

Kira: "You up? You look like you slept in the soil. Did you finally make friends with the worms?"

You (Ayla): "Friends and tenants. They pay in compost."

You watch her grin, quick as a lightning flash and gone. She tosses a flyer into your palm; it smells faintly of printer ink and the sea. The headline is Mayor Serena’s name in the kind of font designed to sound calm and civic. You smooth the paper with soil-streaked fingers.

Kira: "Town-hall’s tonight. Big vote. They’re saying it’ll be—" (she makes a quotation mark in the air) "—'comprehensive protection.' Translation: Jonah’s models get the green light."

You let that sit. You can taste salt on the tip of your tongue; the ocean hangs around the edges of every thought here, a constant narrator. Mateo appears at the end of a narrow path between beds, hands still smelling faintly of last night’s fish oil. He lifts a palm, the calluses mapped like a small topography.

Mateo: "Morning, Ayla. The kids who come by last night said your tomatoes were singing. Good night for dew."

You (Ayla): "Tomatoes sang, I watered, we ate later. You caught anything worth the song?"

Mateo: (shrugging, a slow smile) "A couple of small ones. Not enough to brag. But enough for soup. The harbor’s quiet. Gives you room to hear your plants."

His eyes flick toward the distant cranes. He says it like a fact, not a complaint — as if the cranes are another species of bird to be catalogued. You tuck a pressed bay leaf into the field notebook at your belt, the paper soft against your thumb.

There is a domestic rhythm to the morning: your boots scuffing damp walkways, the satisfying thud of a well-used trowel, the hush of plants closing into themselves against a cold wind. You move through the terraces like a person reading a familiar map. At the rosemary bed you pause to rub your thumb over a stem, feeling sap and resilience. Your practical optimism is like this: steady, hands-on, not spectacular. You coax seedlings with more faith than flair.

Kira watches you, quiet for a beat.

Kira: "You gonna speak at the town-hall? People will listen if you do."

You (Ayla): (a half-laugh) "Speak? I can muddle through. You want me to stand up and charm a room full of officials with compost anecdotes?"

Kira: "You’d surprise them. Or at least make them uncomfortable."

You consider how uncomfortable officials get when the thing they plan to erase explains what it means to be home. You remember a childhood plot — the swelling of a storm that pulled a fence like fingers through fabric, the smell of wet cardboard and the ache after. The memory is not sharp as pain; it is the long dullness of something lost, the way the city made room for something else in its place.

Mateo squats and pats the soil beside a cluster of seedlings. Little fossils of last season’s leaves press faintly into the dirt.

Mateo: "That seawall Jonathan’s men make—" (his voice softens, careful) "—it’ll keep some water out. Maybe. But it keeps other things in too. My son used to say walls are just places where we can’t meet."

You (Ayla): "Walls are also lines on a map. They say who belongs on which side."

Mateo: (shrugs) "True. But lines don’t feed you. Seeds do."

The rooftop gathers these small voices like a chorus — not loud, not theatrical. The tension is present but folded into ordinary things: the way the salt cloud makes your notebook smell like the sea, the way Kira presses a flyer into your pocket with a look that means more than the printed words.

You check the seed vial again. The glass is cool, the paper packets nested like insistences. Inside is a catalog of possibilities you can tuck into earth. You trace the rough edge of one packet with your thumb, thinking in the pragmatic way you always think: what can be scaled, what can be shared, who will lend dirt and sort seeds.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Open the tablet and look at Jonah’s latest renderings") -> Reaction: "You flip the tablet awake. The renderings float up, glossy and impossible. For a beat you feel the small, formal anger of someone who knows the soil better than the sales pitch, then you switch the screen off and breathe into the cold morning." || Choice B ("Fold the flyer and pin it to the communal board") -> Reaction: "You fold the paper carefully and press it onto the corkboard by the shed. The flyer shares space with a child’s watercolor of the harbor and a note about the greenhouse workday; the town-hall notice feels simultaneously small and enormous." || Choice C ("Offer Kira a cup of the kettle warming on the portable stove") -> Reaction: "You reach for the battered thermos. Kira accepts, heat fogging her breath. For a few seconds you trade plans and gossip — the tiny comforting politics of a shared cup — and then the town-hall hangs between you again."] 

Each action returns you to the same horizon, a low gray line of cranes and scaffolding and, farther out, the seawall under construction. Jonah’s polished renderings and shiny models keep their distance, like images in a different book. Your work is closer, tactile — seeds that refuse to be promised, soil that answers when you tend it.

You fold your field notebook closed and hook it at your belt. The sky lightens slightly; the fairy lights cast a faint glow even as the morning grows. The rooftop breathes around you — damp cardboard, rosemary resin, the metallic tang of a dismantled sign. A gull wheels low and then is gone.

A soft chime from the communal messaging board cuts through the background — a single, unobtrusive note, like a neighbor knocking lightly. You turn. A pinned notice flutters where the board meets the greenhouse wall: Mayor Serena Okoye will address the city this evening at the civic center. The headline is measured, official. Below it, in smaller type, the phrase "major votE" sits like a hinge.

You taste salt, and with it a thread of apprehension that is thin and steady rather than electric. The day tightens around that hinge: the vote, Jonah’s model, the risk to beds like the one beneath your fingers. You feel the familiar patient pressure of duty — the work you have done, the seeds you have kept, the neighborhood you promised not to lose. It is not a shout. It is a weight you put on with both hands.

Kira folds her arms and stares at the notice. Her jaw clenches in a way you know means she’s already mapped three plans of action and one protest chant.

Kira: "We’ll be there. The usual people, plus whoever we can pull in. Can you—" (she looks at you, asking more with her eyes) "—can you make the greenhouse list? For speakers, I mean."

You (Ayla): "Yes. I’ll make a list. Names, times. We'll rotate — keep it calm but clear."

Kira: (a small, approving nod) "Good. Calm is underrated. And loud is overrated."

Mateo pats your shoulder, a quick, steadying gesture.

Mateo: "You pick the seeds. We'll bring the soup. People listen over soup."

The morning pulls itself into motion — not hurried, not panicked — a collection of small routines that feel like preparations for something larger. You tuck the town-hall flyer into your pocket, close to your seed vial. The two things rest there together: paper with a city’s promise and a vial that promises dinner, and green.

You walk the edge of the roof one last time, hands on the worn rail, feeling the grain that the weather has worked into grooves. Below, laundry hangs like small flags, a neighborhood's slow flutter. You let your eyes move over the harbor: the seawall, the cranes, the bright little islands of community gardens spread like freckles over the flats.

You think of the childhood plot again — of getting up before dawn to shelter seedlings, of mud drying into a stubborn crust after a sudden storm. The memory is a soft ache, suddenly nearer than you expected. You breathe it in. This, you tell yourself, is why you do it.

The town-hall notice is a hinge. The votes will be counted, the renderings will be shown, and the city will tilt in one direction or another. For now, the morning holds a low, steady hum. Your options are many in the long run; this moment requires only the slow, steady preparation you are good at.

You close your hand around the seed vial and step toward the ladder down to the greenhouse, where the community will gather to plan and to feed — small acts of continuity against the long architecture of promises.

[Visual: Close on the pinned town-hall notice, wind riffling its edge]
[Music: The ambient washes softer; a single warm note lingers]
[Sound: A distant call for a market vendor, the steady drip from a drip-line]

You taste salt and apprehension, and the rooftop exhales as if to steady itself for evening.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 2
}