[Scene: Tideward Promenade | Sunset]
[Visual: Long, low sun gilds wet planks; tide glints between pilings. A ring of folding chairs is set in a half-moon; a portable lectern stands before a projection screen patched with solar film. Hand-lettered flyers flap on a rope line.]
[Sound: Boardwalk boards creak under shifting weight; gulls call distant and abrasive; subdued murmur of a town gathered.]
[Music: Sparse acoustic guitar with a steady, reassuring rhythm]

You step out of the greenhouse and onto the promenade with the rest of the crowd trailing behind—neighbors, volunteers, a scattering of suits with too-clean boots. The air tastes of brine and old rope, and salt clings faintly to the hem of your jacket. The greenhouse light left a rectangle on your skin that feels like a promise you carry into an argument.

You adjust the strap of your sketchbook, feeling the rounded dent where a page has been closed for too long. The brass compass at your throat is scuffed but steady. You breathe slow, letting the evening settle the way you learned to settle after storms: count one, two, three—anchor. The meeting tonight will not be soft. Evelyn Black's team is here with renderings, with timelines, with polished slides. Your plans are softer—mud and root and small hands—but they are yours and your neighbors'.

[Visual: Camera pans over faces. Nita, apron flecked and arms folded; Reverend Sol leaning on his carved cane; Kai in a neat, paint-spattered pair of overalls, giving you a quick thumbs-up; Dr. Leila carrying a slim sensor case.]
[Sound: The murmur folds into a hush as Reverend Sol taps the microphone; the wind takes a stray line of Kai’s laughter and scatters it.]

Reverend Sol: "Friends—Marisport. We gather at a turning tide. We listen, we speak, we decide."

He speaks as he moves through a prayer and a call to deliberation—his voice steady like a lighthouse beam. It is not an indictment of urgency but an insistence that urgency not swallow conscience. You feel the crowd lean with him, the way an entire community can learn to hold its breath together.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Tighten the strap on your sketchbook") -> Reaction: "You slide a hand over the worn leather, feeling the plans beneath your palm like a small, stubborn heartbeat." || Choice B ("Look toward Kai and nod") -> Reaction: "You catch Kai's eye—there is warmth and that familiar, ridiculous optimism—and you give a very small nod that feels like permission."]

Reverend Sol nods to Evelyn. She steps forward with the ease of someone used to podiums and polished flooring. Her trench catches the last gold of the sun; her tablet reflects it in thin rectangles.

Evelyn Black: "Thank you, Reverend. Marisport faces choices that other towns delayed too long to make. Blackbrand's modular barrier is rapid, scalable, and—most importantly—effective. We can protect neighborhoods within months, prevent catastrophic breach events, and buy the community the time it needs to rebuild."

Her voice is measured, persuasive. She spreads a rendering: crisp lines, concrete modules interlocked like a puzzle. The crowd sees a promise: clean edges, no mud, an engineered certainty. Applause is cautious but present—some because they want protection, some because the picture is tidy after years of mess.

You listen. You have seen the black-and-white clarity of that kind of solution before: the kind that makes choices neat at the cost of erasing messy lives. The hair on your forearm prickles—not from fear alone but from the memory of things lost when decisions are taken away from hands that know a place's particular seams.

Evelyn Black: "We will fast-track permitting, fund relocation stipends where necessary, and ensure critical infrastructure is preserved. This is not charity—it's engineering. It is what keeps people safe."

Dr. Leila steps up, clearing her throat with the little scientist’s humility she masks with habit. She opens a slim pack and pulls out a tablet with graphs that bend like seaweed.

Dr. Leila: "Protection is not a simple metric of height and thickness. Living shorelines—oyster reefs, kelp lines, permeable berms—change the physics of surge over time, reduce erosion, and build ecological services that reduce maintenance costs in the long run."

Her figures are patient, dotted with caveats and confidence intervals. You study the curves she lays out: short-term variability, medium-term accretion, long-term resilience when communities steward systems. The data backs what you've been trying to show with models and hands-in-mud prototypes.

Evelyn Black: "Dr. Leila, with respect—those systems are incremental. They require maintenance, community coordination, and—"

Evelyn's interruption is sharp, controlled.

Evelyn Black: "—time Marisport may not have. We must shore up now. Do you seriously suggest, in the face of rising surge frequency, that communities wait for oyster larvae to settle?"

Dr. Leila: "No. I suggest we do not pretend that one approach is enough. We can—should—design hybrid systems. But we must also be honest about scalability pathways and who holds the labor and risk."

The exchange is not a shouting match but a series of clinical parries. The air hums with the slightly metallic scent of tension: caffeine and exhaust, with the subtler tang of fear. Around you, people murmur—some in agreement with Evelyn's briskness, others catching Dr. Leila's patient, layered logic.

Nita steps forward before the crowd can settle into any comfortable certainty. Her palms are raw from work; her voice cuts through like a line through fog.

Nita: "What about my cousin's block? They can't afford relocation. Will your stipends be enough if prices rise? Or will this make room for investors from out of town to take our harborfront?"

Her question lands with a weight you feel in your ribs. It is one thing to talk about engineering and ecosystems; it is another to talk about rents and who gets to stay. The murmur becomes a low, worried chorus. Faces in the crowd tighten—there is the taste of something like betrayal on the wind.

Evelyn Black: "We have modeled socio-economic impacts. There will be assistance packages and—"

Nita: (cutting) "Assistance packages don't keep a family in their house if a bank sells it to someone who'll build a gated development behind your seawall."

A sharp silence follows. Even Evelyn's practiced composure shows a fractional crack; she answers, softer.

Evelyn Black: "No single solution is foolproof. But a delayed wall increases risk of loss that could be irreversible."

Kai steps closer to the lectern then—he does not wait for formal invitation. His smile is gentle but his voice is steady when he speaks.

Kai Navarro: "Maybe it's not about one wall or another. Maybe it's about where we place our bets. We can prototype—right here—show that living systems reduce wave energy when combined with modest engineered segments. We can make the numbers and the people match up."

Kai's suggestion lands like a pebble that ripples outward. Some around you nod; others frown, thinking of permits and budgets. Reverend Sol raises an eyebrow and folds his hands together.

Reverend Sol: "Demonstration is a moral act as much as a scientific one. It says: we believe in our people and our place enough to test what they can do. But it means time, it means money from strange pockets, and it means confronting uncomfortable trade-offs."

You can feel your pulse in your throat. You run a mental checklist: prototype site, volunteers, seed funding, Dr. Leila's sensor suite, a space to host community observation. You think of Juno and the idea of leaving—of the promise you make to younger people when you say 'stay' and 'protect'. The arousal of the meeting isn't breathless panic; it's the focused, mobilizing energy of a group around a shared problem. Mid-level, but ascending: questions sharpen into plans.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Raise your hand and offer the Saltflower hull as a demonstrator site") -> Reaction: "You consider standing, sketchbook heavy at your hip, and naming the hull—your throat tight with the weight of history and possibility." || Choice B ("Stay seated and wait for Kai to finish") -> Reaction: "You let Kai take the floor; there's trust in that. You will have your moment, but for now you listen, cataloguing what must be said." || Choice C ("Step forward and ask Evelyn how relocation would actually work") -> Reaction: "You feel the old, sharp instinct to make promises accountable—ask for the ledger, the timeline, the people who make decisions—before any ground is turned." ]

Kai: "We can do a controlled test—combine a short modular barrier with an off-reef kelp line and oyster units. Measure the difference. If the hybrid reduces force enough, that proves living components scale when paired correctly."

Dr. Leila: "We can deploy sensors, model a year of seasonal storms, and present a cost-benefit with confidence intervals. It won't be instant, but it will be defensible."

Evelyn Black: "Defensible, yes—but defensible to whom? Insurance markets, bondholders, the county. They don't wait for a year-long data run when a mayor needs to show protection before the next election."

A man in the back—owner of a low-rise with salt-bleached siding—yells: "I need to know my family won't drown next winter! Data can wait."

The crowd lurches between urgency and prudence. This is the hinge you've feared: immediate safety versus longer-term resilience—and behind both, the brittle crust of economics, of power.

You feel your shoulders rise and stay there; your hands are a little colder than the evening. You imagine the demo in practical terms: where to anchor kelp lines, where to buy spat for oysters, how to recruit volunteers without overburdening labor that is already strained. You think about metrics—wave attenuation, sediment accretion, maintenance hours per month. You think about stories: the difference in people's faces when they see an oyster reef grow instead of a concrete wall rising like an off-limits fortress.

Reverend Sol: "We will not pretend the choice is simple. But we owe every neighbor an honest, public test of alternatives. We will vote to fund—or not fund—a pilot site. We will hold Blackbrand accountable to their promises."

Evelyn Black: (inclining her head) "Transparency is fair. Blackbrand will cooperate with any publicly accountable demonstration that does not compromise critical protection timelines."

The handshake in her words tastes like diplomacy—acceptance with terms. The crowd exhales. The tempo of the meeting eases a touch; decisions are not yet made, but the path forward is sketched in shorthand and cautious clauses.

You look at Kai, at Dr. Leila's quiet, precise confidence, at Nita's tight jawline. You think of the saltflower greenhouse—its hull converted into nursery and classroom, the seedlings like small green votes for the future. A demonstration would put evidence where now there is only rhetoric. It would show neighbors what living systems can do in a way numbers on a slide cannot.

A steadier, firmer resolve settles into your chest. It is not triumph. It is not defeat. It is a pivot: from arguing abstractly to building something visible that the town can touch and measure. You feel the ember in your hands flare up with purpose—small and steady, exactly what it needs to be.

You clear your throat, ready to name a plan, to ask for a vote to fund the pilot, to call volunteers, to put schedules and budgets on paper. You are ready to step from 'we think' into 'we do'—to make a demonstration that will let evidence speak where words do not.

[Visual: The camera tightens on your face. The promenade's board planks run like lines toward the next scene; the sound of the tide becomes a soft percussion beneath the final murmurs.]
[Music: Guitar cadence slows into a single resolving chord]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}