[Scene: Council House Atrium | Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of the atrium; glass panes etched with salt spray, sunlight diluted by mist. Irene's projector renders hang in the air like architectural presences.]
[Music: Low, steady ambient undercurrent; the tempo is even, building subtly.]
[Sound: Murmur of gathered residents, soft clicks from a camera shutter, the occasional hush of a coffee cup set down.]

You step across the threshold and the air changes: cooler, conditioned, the recycled coffee in the atrium smelling thinner than the spray outside. Your jacket still carries the faint salt of the boardwalk; your sleeves are damp where the morning mist clung. You feel the satchel's weight — blueprints folded flat, seed packets pressed between pages — a familiar gravity at your hip.

[Visual: Close on Maya’s hand resting on the satchel strap; the copper barometer swings faintly against fabric.]

The room is arranged for persuasion. Rows of chairs face a low dais. A large screen to Irene's left cycles glossy renderings of the proposed harbor plan — clean lines, engineered seawalls, a new promenade promising jobs and "economic stabilization" in glowing type. The fonts are warm and assured. The metrics on Irene’s lapel pin blink in tandem with the slides.

Irene stands at the dais with the practiced poise of someone who has rehearsed conviction. Her hair is a controlled wind; her voice is practiced calm.

Irene Vale: "Good morning. We all want the same thing — safety for our families, work for our people. This proposal brings immediate employment and a hardened edge against the next big storm." (She gestures; renderings change to show animation of waves and engineered fill.)

You hear the facts wrapped like a gift: jobs, timelines, measurable returns. The room takes small sips of it. Mayor Lionel watches from the front row, face eased into the tired, listening expression of someone who has been voting with his shoulders for years.

Mayor Lionel Park: "Immediate employment is something we can't ignore. Families are hurting." (His voice is flat with exhaustion, a man balancing spreadsheets and concession.)

You move through the data in your head like a checklist, the way you did on the boardwalk: Sora's accretion curves, the living shoreline models, Evan's prototypes for modular habitats. Dr. Sora Kim sits beside the dais, palms folded, eyes flicking between Irene’s slides and a laptop full of smaller, denser graphs.

Dr. Sora Kim: (softly) "These accretion curves show gradual recovery under the living-shoreline scenarios, but they require phased installation and time to stabilize peat. Rapid fill increases compaction and alters hydrology." (She traces a point on her tablet as if translating a stubborn dialect into plain speech.)

You step up when Sora glances at you. Translation is what you do—you are the bridge between the lab and the dock, between models and grandparents' memories of water up to the porch steps.

You: "We can create jobs restoring marsh — planting, building reed beds, deploying Evan's modules as demonstration homes for displaced families." (You keep your voice steady. You don't want to sound like an idealist, only like a planner with feet in mud.)

Irene's eyes flick to you. There is a tilt at the corner of her mouth that could be a concession or a challenge — you can't tell, and the ambiguity is familiar.

Irene Vale: "Pilot projects are fine in theory, Maya. But pilots don't feed people next month. Our proposal delivers measurable work — and quickly. The private investment moves faster than grants." (She folds her hands. The lapel pin pulses metrics like a heartbeat.)

Tala leans in beside you from her seat, whispering with the clipped urgency you know well.

Tala: (whisper) "Do you see the sign-ups? They're already lining up at the contractor table. If we don't make noise, they'll vote with stakes, not science."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step closer and press Sora's point about peat compaction") -> Reaction: "You move forward, voice low but firm, and point to Sora's curve. A couple of heads turn; a murmured question rises like a tide." || Choice B ("Stay back and scan the room for sympathetic faces") -> Reaction: "You let your gaze sweep the crowd — fishermen, schoolteachers, the kid who delivered your mail — and you feel the weight of their mornings settle like a tide under your ribs."]

You scan the crowd anyway, whether you chose action or observation. Captain Reyes sits like a carved buoy — face weathered, pipe between his fingers, eyes unreadable. He does not look moved by renderings; he looks at the promises the way he looks at an incoming swell: assessing whether it will break or climb too high.

Captain Reyes: "Been through these before. Money makes nice maps. Water doesn't care for nice maps." (His voice is low, and the room listens because he remembers storms before charts became art.)

Evan stands at the back, slightly out of the ring of light, his camera catching small angles and his solar wristband sending quiet statistics to his pocket. When your eyes find his, he nods once — a small, steady anchor. His mouth is neutral but his shoulders are an open line; you read caution there, the way he reads material fatigue in a new prototype.

Evan Kaito: (quietly, to you as he passes a printout) "If we can run a stress test on the desal unit with the tide this month, it could show immediate utility — jobs plus resilience." (He keeps his voice low so the conversation at the front doesn't tilt.)

You and Evan exchange more than words: a quick slide of a diagram; a look that tries to carry both plan and comfort. He's not loud. He doesn't have to be. The steadiness is what you have come to trust.

Mayor Lionel fidgets with his pen. He's the kind of man who will look for a line that saves both the budget and the ballot, and his hands betray the calculus.

Mayor Lionel Park: "We need an answer in phases. We can't wait until funding trickles in." (He looks to you, then to Irene, then to Sora, searching for the thing that sounds like governance and not gamble.)

You feel the room's collective breath as a single, held thing. The ember of panic you noticed the first time Irene said "immediate" flares up not as heat but as a sharpening sense of trade-offs: homes saved this year, marsh lost next. You have lived with these trade-offs like a second skin.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call for a measured pilot timeline, naming specific community labor roles") -> Reaction: "You outline a short, phased timeline — restoration teams, demo habitats, local hires. A few faces relax; others look skeptical but thoughtful." || Choice B ("Ask Mayor Lionel for a temporary moratorium until Sora's models are peer-reviewed") -> Reaction: "You ask for time: a pause to check models. The room flickers — relief from some corners, impatience from others. Irene's jaw tightens."]

Irene leans forward like a counterweight to your request. Her tone narrows into corporate precision, the kind that unclenches markets and tightens towns.

Irene Vale: "Moratoria slow everything. There's no guarantee your pilot will scale. Investment walks fast, or it walks away. We can protect jobs now, or we can hope funding sustains us later." (She doesn't raise her voice. Her control is part of the appeal.)

Dr. Sora's fingers hover over her tablet; she looks at you, then at the dais, the scientist caught between evidence and the clock.

Dr. Sora Kim: "Risk is real on both sides. Rapid fill risks subsidence and loss of pore-water pressure — that changes the marsh’s resilience. But engineered solutions can be improved with local knowledge incorporated." (Her words attempt to bridge; they land with precise, quiet weight.)

You think of the porch that was swallowed by a storm years ago, the photo you carry in your head when nights are long: family chairs floating like lost boats. You think of Evan's desal unit and the hands in Tala's volunteer roster. You weigh the slow dignity of restoration against the immediate arithmetic of payroll.

Your pulse ticks up, not frantic but purposeful. The room hums in mid-tempo now: attentive, tense, not on the verge of collapse, but pressed toward a choice that will reshape many days to come. You rehearse the arguments, translating Sora's jargon into the language of neighbors — "living shoreline" becomes "planting shore that holds," "pilot modular habitats" become "homes we can test and repair here."

Tala squeezes your wrist. Her fingers are warm, practical, a reminder of the street-level work it takes to turn rhetoric into action.

Tala: "If you say we can do both — jobs now and pilots that hire locals — people will listen. If you say 'wait,' they'll hear 'no money for now'." (Her whisper is urgent but not desperate.)

For a long beat, silence settles like a thin fog. You listen to the scrape of a chair, the shuffling of feet, the soft beep from the projector as it cycles slides. Your options line up like tide marks on a pier.

You catalog them, a strategist's inventory: push for a phased hybrid plan and risk seeming indecisive; demand a moratorium and risk losing investor momentum; push for immediate employment tied to restoration and risk being dismissed as idealistic. Each path has faces attached: Captain Reyes' hard lines, the mayor's tired hope, the young single mother who needs work now, the old marsh that will only heal if given time.

You feel the moment concentrate; the arousal curve of the scene has risen to its midpoint — not panic, but clarity sharpened by stakes. The decision you are about to make is not only technical. It will be read as a moral choice, and every moral choice here is also political.

You inhale, taste of brine and coffee and the faint metallic tang of projector light, and center yourself on the work — on translation, on negotiation, on holding the many small truths together without pretending they're the same.

Your hand drifts toward your satchel, fingers brushing the blueprints as if for luck. You could speak now. You could lay out a hybrid plan, naming teams, timelines, and labor; or you could press for a pause to validate the science. You could reach for Evan's print of the desal test schedule and bind it to a jobs commitment. The room waits in that crystalline pause where intention becomes statement.

[Visual: Tight on your face; the atrium's light shifts slightly as clouds pass, altering the image on Irene's rendering.]
[Sound: The ambient music holds a single sustained chord, inviting forward motion.]

You breathe out, and the next sentence you form will tip the room toward one of these futures.

[Page-Turn: You feel the weight of waiting — not dread, but the compacted energy of choices that will ripple out through people and marsh alike. The sound of the projector becomes a metronome counting the seconds before you speak. You are a conduit between data and lives; the hand you extend must hold both.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}