[Scene: Saltwren Commons | Early Morning — Overcast, low tide]
[Visual: Boardwalk slick with algae; seedling trays under tarps; a cluster of protest banners folded against a bench]
[Music: Percussive, urgent staccato; a low string tremor underpins the scene]
[Sound: Distant engines of media vans; a gull's plaint cut short by a passing car; a phone buzz like a warning]

You arrive before dawn because the world has started moving faster than sleep. The Commons smells of wet earth and old sea — compost, ozone, a clean metallic edge where salt has settled into the boards. Your boots leave dark prints that the water will swallow by mid-tide, and for a moment you watch the sea claim your footprint as if it knew how to take things whole.

Rae is already here, restless as a live wire. She hands you a folded poster that says SOLHAVEN LIVES in block letters, then folds her hands into her jacket sleeves like she is trying to keep from shaking. Tommy drags a cooler of thermoses across the planks. A thread of conservative national commentary has already threaded its way through the town's phones; strangers from two states are on camera about to say Solhaven is a symbol.

You read the headlines on your phone with a mouth gone dry: leaked memos, a thinly redacted plan, law firms with teeth, and—worse—an editorial that frames the Commons as an aesthetic obstacle to "progress." The leak didn't pick a side; it made everything combustible.

You feel the heat rise behind your sternum. This is bigger than the council chamber. This is a narrative war where facts will be hewn into slogans and grief will be packaged as data.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Share the Commons' soil samples with a reporter") -> Reaction: "You lift a jar of the marsh sediment, cap still speckled with mud, and position it with a steady hand as a journalist leans in; you say what you mean in a way that won't be flattened into a soundbite." || Choice B ("Keep the samples private — only Amina sees them") -> Reaction: "You tuck the jars back under the tarp. There are things best seen by those who know how to read layers, not headlines. Amina will look at them the right way."]


[Scene: Town Hall — Hours Later | Midday — Press Peak]
[Visual: The municipal chamber is stuffed beyond its usual capacity; camera rigs sprout like intrusive birds; fluorescent lights wash the room in interrogation tones]
[Music: Electronics hum; a rising cluster of brass and strings builds into a shrill insistence]
[Sound: Microphones crackling; murmurs folding into shouts; the distinct ping of social media alerts]

You push through the doors with the rest of the town. The air inside tastes of cheap coffee and fear. The hearing has become a theater of accusation: lawsuits filed, PR statements queued, and reporters with lenses that cut. On every phone screen in the gallery a different headline scrolls, and your face feels smaller than the frame.

Celeste's team occupies the front row like a weather-tight wall: polished, calm, a coordinated line of smiles that don't reach eyes. She stands at the podium now, flawless under the lights. Her voice is smooth with the practiced cadence of someone used to being heard on a larger stage.

Celeste Park: "We are talking about livelihoods. About long-term stability. The plan proposed will protect homes and put Solhaven back on the map where investment can secure the future."

Her words hit like a glass against a window: thin, resonant, and designed to stay intact even when thrown.

You rise when it's your turn, but not before Elias finds you among the crowd and falls into step beside you like a tide shadow. He looks at you, and you study him with the scrubbing impatience of someone who knows both facts and hearts are on trial. His expression is complex—unreadable in the way you have learned to read him: patient in public, private in the ways that matter.

Elias Navarro: "We're running out of time to make this work without tearing each other apart," he says, half to you, half to the room. "If we let this become only spectacle, the science dies in the noise."

You can hear the plea there: not just for data, but for trust.

Mara Lin: "Trust isn't built on statements and glossy renderings," you answer into the microphone. "It's built on the ground we stand on. You talk about livelihoods—great. Tell me how you plan to compensate the people who lose theirs because a plan moves faster than a shoreline."

Celeste smiles thinly, then strikes with surgical calm.

Celeste Park: "Ms. Lin, we are offering mitigation funds, buyouts, relocation support. These are concrete, fundable pathways forward."

Rae from the gallery cuts sharply—more noise than interruption, a pulse of dissent.

Rae Carter: "Those 'pathways' sound like moving people out of sight. How is displacing elders and fishermen 'mitigation'?"

The chamber shakes with response. Reporters scribble louder. A cameraman leans forward, his lens a hungry mouth.

This is not a polite negotiation anymore. It's a choreography of accusation and defense, each side presenting its tableau to the cameras at once.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Confront Celeste on-stage about the leaked memos") -> Reaction: "You step closer, your voice low but fierce. You cite the leak—carefully—and ask why Solhaven's own documents read like an afterthought in a corporate playbook." || Choice B ("Keep your questions procedural—focus on oversight and monitoring") -> Reaction: "You pull the focus back to process: independent checkpoints, third-party audits, and Amina supervising neutral tests. It cools the public anger into something doable."]


[Scene: Hallway Outside Town Hall | Afternoon — Short Break]
[Visual: A cluster of people huddle under a leaking awning; press vans glow like beached whales across the lot]
[Music: Rapid, nervous woodwind runs; a heartbeat underlining the scene]
[Sound: Snatches of on-air commentary; a televangelist voice arguing about 'economic necessity' in the distance]

Elias finds you when you step into the corridor. He grips a paper cup so tightly his knuckles pale. Behind his mask of engineering calm, you can see the strain: the institute has lines to protect, the firms have investors to answer to, and the town has lives to save. He speaks quickly now, trying to wedge reason into a small space.

Elias Navarro: "There are injunctions in motion and countersuits. The leak — it's made everything national. That means pressure, funding opens and closes—politics is moving faster than careful modeling."

Mara Lin (you): "National attention isn't neutral. It comes with narratives that flatten nuance. They don't come for our wetlands; they come for a story that makes clicks and donations."

Elias exhales, a small, human sound that lands in your chest.

Elias Navarro: "I know. And I'm sorry—you have every right to be furious. But if we let everything freeze, Celeste wins by default because the development moves in a vacuum. A pause under scientific oversight gives us a chance to prove a better way."

You search his face for softness and find a map of contradictions: commitment to the town, loyalty to institutions that bend him into compromise, fear of losing his career, fear of losing you.

Your reply is a half-laugh that tastes like grief.

Mara Lin (you): "A pause. Either it's meaningful oversight or it's a stall that becomes a compromise without consent."

Elias's fingers flex on the cup. Across the corridor, someone shouts the outcome of a court filing—no one has time to digest it before another headline replaces it.

Dr. Amina Bhatt appears beside you, steady as the lab benches she lives behind. She offers a small, professional smile that is also an anchor.

Dr. Amina Bhatt: "Legal action will draw attention, yes. But scientific mediation can be designed to be transparent. If we set the parameters—who audits, who can speak, what metrics are non-negotiable—then a pause gives the community a seat in the room."

You look at her and feel the old logic of numbers: useful, but not sufficient. Numbers don't carry the weight of someone's grandmother's home.

Rae bursts into the corridor, breathless.

Rae Carter: "They just put up a banner on the promenade with Celeste's smiling face. 'Rebirth,' it says. Who the hell thinks that's sensitive?"

Rae's fury is electric. You want to tell her to channel it; you want to tell her to breathe. Instead you say what is true.

Mara Lin (you): "We keep the narrative. We tell our stories on our terms. We make sure any oversight includes lived testimony as data. Amina — can you make that enforceable?"

There is a pause where the hallway seems to hold its breath. A camera in the distance zooms like a beetle on a leaf.

Dr. Amina Bhatt: "Yes. If the parameters are legally binding—independent audits, community-appointed observers, immediate publish of raw data—then it is enforceable. But it requires both legal teeth and public pressure."

Elias meets your eyes with something like pleading.

Elias Navarro: "That's the compromise I'm pushing for. Scientific pause with teeth."

Your chest thuds against a cage of fear and reluctant hope. You want to believe him, and you want to believe that this is enough.

[Scene: Town Hall — Return to Chamber | Late Afternoon — Hearing Resumes]
[Visual: The chamber feels smaller now; sweat beads at the nape of your neck; screens display live social metrics in the gallery]
[Music: A high, sustained string that crescendos into an almost unbearable pitch]
[Sound: The gavel's handle taps the table; a mic feedback shrieks then stutters out]

The hearing resumes. More people have arrived. Videos of Saltwren have been looped across channels, and every loop strips another layer of privacy. Celeste speaks with that same polished inevitability. Outside, opponents of the development gather on the promenade; inside, allies of the Commons stand shoulder to shoulder, a living barricade of patchwork jackets and mud-smeared boots.

The council chair clears his throat and reads aloud the pending options: continue construction with oversight; halt until audits; or a temporary injunction while litigation proceeds. Your throat goes dry as he speaks. These are words that will become laws. These are words that will decide whether contractors move heavy equipment tonight.

The room pitches into a roar of voices. Lawyers pivot on procedural minutiae; a caller on the live stream screams about jobs; a woman in the gallery weeps and says, "My house is on that map." Cameras click like rain.

Celeste Park: "We cannot simply freeze investment every time a rumor circulates. Doing so risks the economy of the whole region."

You hate the way 'region' flattens the edges of people's houses into economic units. Your voice comes out raw.

Mara Lin (you): "This isn't rumor. This is data and testimony and grief. If 'investment' means erasing where people live, then it's not an investment—it's extraction."

Elias leans in, his hand almost brushing yours. For all his institutional loyalties, the proximity is still a comfort. He murmurs, low enough for only you to hear.

Elias Navarro: "Amina has drafted a binding oversight schedule. It includes public release of monitoring, an independent review board, and enforceable stop-work clauses."

Celeste sneers like an expression learned for debate.

Celeste Park: "Independent review boards can be stacked with activists. Who funds these 'independent' panels? Who pays their salaries? Who's liable when a project stalls and people go without?"

Her question lands smartly. It is not a question about values; it is a question about leverage.

Dr. Amina Bhatt: "The funding can be escrowed in a transparent trust. Reviewers will be chosen by a nomination process that includes community representatives and two national experts selected by mutual agreement."

A pause. Phones are being raised for interviews; somewhere, a trending hashtag morphs into an accusation. The noise builds into an almost physical pressure.

Your palms are damp on the wood of the gallery rail. You can taste metal. This is the moment the town will be held up against the light and judged.

Rae shouts from the back again, louder now, voice braided with fear and courage.

Rae Carter: "We won't be boxed out of this! We didn't ask for headlines; we asked for life!"

The council chair rubs his temple, visibly tired. He looks down at his notes and at the packed room and then up at the cameras. The weight of the decision bends the light in the room.

[Sound: The microphone squeals; the murmurs compress into a single, suspended heartbeat]
[Music: The strings cut out; a single, low drumbeat remains, counting down]

You realize, with a physical lurch, that the next words spoken will set the town's direction. The legal ripples are no longer abstract—they are a tide that can either lift or swallow. You feel your stomach hollow out as adrenaline floods in.

Then the chair raises the gavel.

The air narrows. Cameras lean in as if the chamber's breath were on film. You feel every second expand and compress, the room a long throat ready to swallow verdict.

[Visual: Close on your hand tightening on the railing; a shallow, contained tremor]
[Music: Drumbeat accelerates into an urgent staccato; the world funnels into the present]

Your mind narrows to two truths—one: whatever the ruling, the town will fracture under the force of it; two: the leak has already broken the simple options into shards. There is no going back to the way decisions were made before.

You lock eyes with Elias one last time. His face—complex, unreadable, patient, terrified—carries a thousand small entreaties.

Elias Navarro: (whisper) "No matter what happens, we hold each other to account."

Mara Lin (you): (whisper) "We try. We don't let this become just another story for someone else's ledger."

The gavel hovers.

[Music: The drumbeat reaches its peak; a wire-thin violin cuts a high note]
[Sound: A single, sharp inhale from the room — then silence]

You brace. The gavel's descent will echo into new chapters for Solhaven—lawsuits, storms, media cycles, and choices that will ask whether love and community can survive institutional strains.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 14
}