[Scene: Wet Boardwalk | Night — After the Assembly]
[Visual: The harbor behind you glitters with lanterns; low tide reveals dark, glassy puddles between timbers. Your boots leave slow prints on the slick wood.]
[Music: Warm strings with a rising, hopeful motif]
[Sound: Distant gulls, a soft murmur of people disbanding, occasional creak of the boardwalk underfoot]

You stand with the damp salt air in your lungs, the harbor's steady exhale at your back. The assembly's heat has thinned into a dozen smaller conversations that pull like eddies around the lamps. Your palms still smell faintly of rope and oil; the braided string on your wrist feels like a small constant. Tonight, decisions were proposed — not yet decided. Now they press into you, tangible as tidewater.

Soren is across from you, the world narrowing to the slim set of his profile when he turns. His coat is slick with spray, the single silver streak at his temple catching the lamp. When his bracelet unfolds a shimmering model above his hand — raised promenades, glinting pilings, a geometry of promises — light washes over his face like a plan taking shape.

Soren Voss: "We can fast-track this. Raise key streets, retrofit the docks. Bring investors. Atera won't have to drift apart on migration and debt. We give people a choice to stay."

You watch the projection ripple; it feels almost comforting in its clarity. The numbers and elevations are tidy. Soren's voice is steady, practiced — the kind of voice that makes the messy parts seem like variables to solve rather than people to persuade.

Elias stands a step behind you, palms unconsciously flecked with algae. His algae pendant catches a dusk-slate light and glows faintly at the edge of vision. He doesn't gesture to holograms; instead he pulls out a crumpled tide map from a field notebook, edges ink-smudged.

Elias Maren: "We can start small and show results. Kelp pilot beds, living breakwaters. They won't look like a luxury development, but they will rebuild habitat, slow erosion, and give people work that belongs to them. I've run the numbers for a pilot that could scale."

He looks at you like he's handing you a rope, not a blueprint — clear, earnest, pleading in the soft way he always does. There is hope in the word "belong" and also risk; small-scale work needs patience and stubbornness.

Riv barges in, cheeks flushed with adrenaline, voice bright and too loud for the boardwalk's hush.

Riv: "No whisper deals. We block the permits, we sit on the docks, we make them listen. The town does not get traded for a fancy skyline."

Jun leans on the rail, pragmatic, boots planted. He gives you a look that's somewhere between a grin and a warning.

Jun: "Blockades buy time and attention, Riv, but they don't bring in materials or engineers. They'll mean sleepless nights, and someone has to keep the nets mended and the pumps running."

Mayor Amina stands a little apart, braid wrapped in scarves, eyes tired but focused. She folds her hands and studies the group as if weighing tide charts and testimony at once.

Mayor Amina Bakar: "Mika, you have voice and skill and the workshop that could anchor whatever plan we choose. I need a recommendation I can carry to council. It matters how you frame this."

Everything narrows to that: your voice. The harbor breathes around you, patient and insistent. You can almost feel the three possible futures carved into the damp air: engineered elevations, living kelp lines, or a self-governed cooperative blockade that keeps decision-making local. Each line pulls at different parts of you — safety, repairable labor, autonomy.

You are used to fixing things with tools and stubbornness; to working in the space between brokenness and usable. But this is larger, a town-shape question. Your chest tightens, not with dread but with the tightness of someone who has learned that the right leverage can change outcomes.

Soren steps closer, gently, as if proximity will help sell practicality.

Soren Voss: "Make the ask with me. We'll secure matched funding — I can present phasing that preserves the fisherman's row. We don't have to sweep tradition away. We can elevate streets and integrate green buffers. Think of it as a faster route to safety."

You notice, in a private corner of your mind, how the shimmer of his model settles worries about roofs and roadways. It speaks the language of permanence. But you also feel the ache of places that matter not because of concrete but because of hands that have worn them into being.

Elias interrupts, voice a soft, urgent counterpoint.

Elias Maren: "Fast isn't always safe. If we build without living systems, we trade future resilience for short-term guarantees. Let me show the kelp beds. Let us pilot the living breakwaters — three lines, start from your workshop. I can train people. We can prove it's a net gain."

He looks at you steadily, not as a planner but as someone who believes in shared labor. There's a pause where the world seems to tilt toward possibility: kelp forests as infrastructure, restoration as livelihood.

Riv folds his arms and watches both men, then looks to you with an impatience softened by trust.

Riv: "And if you think they're going to trick us, we keep the town in our hands. We build our own guardrails and make the developers negotiate in public. No private backrooms."

Jun snorts softly.

Jun: "And who builds them while we snipe at each other? Someone's got to haul beams and seal pumps. Somebody's got to make the first plank stick."

Mayor Amina's face is unreadable for a beat — complex, the expression you have learned can hold both relief and hard calculation. She uncaps the last of her patience.

Mayor Amina Bakar: "Mika, if you recommend Soren, I can move funding faster. If you back Elias, the grant committee will listen, but it will take a phased rollout. If you push for a cooperative, that will need seed capital we don't have yet and an organized governance plan. I need a direction I can present at council tomorrow."

Your fingers find the rim of the dented key in your pocket — not a detail to dwell on, just a weight that steadies. The night smells like tar, seaweed, and hot coffee from the stalls. Lantern light pools gold on faces that expect you to choose.

You think of your mother's workshop, of the hands that showed you how not to be frightened of saltwater or hard work. You think of Elias wading in kelp, of Soren's patient projections, of Riv's fire and Jun's pragmatism. You feel the town as something almost alive, leaning one way or another on your thought.

A sliver of hope unspools through your chest. The tone isn't desperation; it's a rising, capable hum. Whatever you choose will not be perfect, but it will be chosen in the open, with people who will be asked to labor and to keep faith. You remember that power often looks like a planked bridge: built plank by plank by many hands.

You breathe. The harbor seems to exhale with you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Soren to run through the phasing again, pressing on how he'd preserve local jobs") -> Reaction: "Soren's lips lift in a practiced, relieved smile. He talks in clear milestones and points to places on his projected model where fishermen's slips remain. You feel the concrete under your feet becoming less uncertain." || Choice B ("Turn to Elias and ask what the first month at the kelp beds would look like—who does what, and how you can start tomorrow") -> Reaction: "Elias brightens like a reef catching sunlight. He sketches a day-by-day plan, names people he trusts to help, and says, quietly, 'We can start before sunrise.' The idea of hands in water ignites warmth you can't hide." || Choice C ("Ask Riv what a blockade would actually require—logistics, shifts, who watches the kids") -> Reaction: "Riv's energy sharpens into organization; he lists roles, times, a rota. There's fierce pride in his plan, and you can see how it would force attention. You also feel the cost—tired bodies, risk, and the political heat it would draw."]

The group leans in after your small question; conversation twines, people exchange specifics, the night filling with useful noise. Each question pulled out a different texture of commitment — Soren's polished timelines, Elias's quiet schedules, Riv's militant rota. You can imagine starting any of them tomorrow and making the first small, living change.

You listen for the sound that tells you which path will carry a rising momentum: the steady cadence of work plans, the warm clatter of tools being agreed upon, the hush of people imagining better shorelines. The hope is not naive — it is a work plan wrapped in ambition.

You step to the edge of the boardwalk and look down at the reedbeds where water moves in long, slow breaths. Moonlight slips across the tips. In the reeds you see the town's future as a braided rope — thicker, stronger, and only so if enough hands took to it.

You feel the responsibility — heavy, yes, but not paralyzing. Because around you are people willing to work: to measure, to protest, to pilot, to build. The upcoming choice will set the first plank.

You close your eyes briefly and picture the morning after your decision: hands arriving at the workshop, or engineers on site, or people spreading tarps and chaining themselves to the rail in righteous concert. Each image holds a kind of hope: action that moves towards preservation rather than inertia.

Soren clears his throat softly; Elias folds his map; Riv taps his foot in a restless rhythm; Jun rubs his knuckles as if already at work. Mayor Amina awaits your voice like a tide waits for the moon.

Your next words will not finish the town's story. They will start it.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Say, 'Let's draw a phased plan together' and propose a joint committee tonight") -> Reaction: "There is immediate, practical energy in the air. Soren nods at the diplomacy; Elias says 'Yes' and writes down time slots; Riv gripes but signs up for outreach. The sense of shared, forward action brightens the group." || Choice B ("Say, 'I'm leaning toward a restoration pilot — start at my workshop'") -> Reaction: "Elias's face opens as if the night itself just became softer. Jun gives a quick, approving grin. Soren's jaw tightens for a second but his voice stays measured; he asks how funding will be staged. The path feels immediate and work-filled." || Choice C ("Say, 'We organize the cooperative, we retain local control, and I'll help coordinate the first assembly'") -> Reaction: "Riv whoops in quiet triumph, slapping your shoulder. Jun nods, slow and serious. Mayor Amina asks about seed funding, making the practical questions clear, but the group's energy is suddenly comprehensive and purpose-driven."]

A gust of wind rolls in from the harbor, carrying the scent of wet wood and a hint of kelp. Your chest swells with something like confidence. The night will not resolve for you; it will ask you to step. You run through the practicalities once more in your head — workshop hours, permit windows, who to call at first light — and they begin to arrange themselves like tools on a bench.

You taste salt and resolve.

The decision looms. You can already feel the small motions that would follow—scheduling, arguing, patching, securing. You have always preferred work to speeches; that preference feels like a guide now.

You look at each of them in turn: Soren's calm competence, Elias's bright determination, Riv's fierce loyalty, Jun's measured caution, Amina's weary authority. Each face is asking something different from you, but all of them are asking you to pick a way forward.

Your heart lifts with the conviction that whatever you choose, people will move. The trajectory of the town can change. The best thing you can do is choose intentionally and begin.

You open your mouth to speak, to name a direction that the town can follow — and in that sound will go the first real plank of whatever comes next.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Which approach will I champion to Amina and the town?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Back Elias’ kelp and living-breakwater pilot, commit my workshop as a restoration hub.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Negotiate terms with Soren to secure raised infrastructure with integrated ecological measures.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Organize a community cooperative—block top-down plans and build local resilience on our terms.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}