[Scene: Raised Warehouse Floor | Night]
[Visual: Wide shot from behind you — the raised warehouse floor crowded with people, harbor lights glittering below]
[Music: Gentle strings, warm and rising]
[Sound: The creak of floorboards beneath a hundred shifting feet; distant gull calls; a low hum from a field projector]

You step onto the raised floor and the room rearranges itself around you: low conversations braid into louder ones, a ripple of faces lit by lanterns and phone screens. Salt rides the air with the faint, oily smell of diesel and fried fish from a stall below. The harbor is a pool of reflected light, and every soaked rope and weathered plank seems to be listening.

Mayor Amina stands at the center, braid catching a lamp's low glow—scarves wrapped around her shoulders as if to hold warmth and history in place. She has the practiced calm of someone who has held too many town meetings and still believes words can do work.

Mayor Amina: "Thank you for coming. Tonight matters. We won't let panic steer us, and we won't let promises of easy fixes replace honest plans. Speak plainly. Listen harder."

You watch her speak, the cadence steady like tide marks on pilings. The crowd breathes with her; someone claps once, then twice. Riv is at the edge of the floor, bandana bright in the dim, hands restless. Jun wedges an elbow into your ribs and grins—sawdust still in the crease of his palm.

Jun: "They won't let us fade without a fight. Not while you've still got your mother's stubbornness in you."

You feel the tug of that stubbornness. Your chest tightens like a net pulled taut. You remember the greenhouse's warm lamps, the dented key and the constant hum of repair — not because you want to be a hero, but because the town's dignity is stitched into everyday things: nets, morning markets, a neighbor's laugh. You can taste that dignity in the air, metallic with salt and hope.

[Visual: A slick trench coat breaks the lantern light — Soren enters]
[Sound: A low metallic chime as his data-bracelet projects a thin halo of light]
[Visual: Close-up of Soren's hand; an engraved business card case clicks open like a practiced gesture]

Soren Voss moves through the crowd with polished ease. His coat throws off light in thin waves; the reflective weave catches and refracts the harbor lamps. He carries glossy models in a slim case and a tablet that throws up crisp renderings — raised walkways, levees that curve like confident promises.

Soren: "Atera's future doesn't have to be fragile. We can raise made-safe infrastructure and invite investment that keeps people whole."

He speaks like a blueprint speaking through a person — calm, decisive. His pale gray eyes hold you for a second, assessing: the town as problem set, the people as variables. The case of business cards falls open on the floor when he sets it down, a small ritual that smells faintly of varnish and old paper.

Elias steps forward beside a cargo crate turned podium. He sets up a field projector that throws moving footage of swaying kelp and a map of recovery zones across the warehouse wall—green shapes glowing like living promises.

[Sound: Projector whirring, low ocean roar mixed into the audio feed]
[Visual: Dappled underwater light ripples across faces]

Elias (voice soft at first): "Kelp farms can reduce wave energy, give us fish returns, and rebuild the seafloor…small-scale demonstrations show increased juvenile fish counts. If we seed these beds and place living breakwaters, we get ecological and economic benefits together."

His hands tremble as he taps through slides; not from fear, you think, but from too much hope clamped into too small a body. He looks at you, briefly, searching for the steadiness you hide in your posture.

Soren (interrupting, smooth): "Those are noble experiments, Elias. But they scale slowly. When the next king tide comes, what's to stop entire streets from going under? We need immediate, reliable fortification. Raised infrastructure buys us time."

Elias (slightly sharper): "Buying time with concrete that changes currents will cost the bay more than we can afford. The science shows—"

Soren: "The science also shows you can't wait for community gardens to hold back a wall of water."

The room exhales. Voices ripple: practical murmurs; angry objections; quiet, terrified agreement. Two camps begin to feel like gravity wells—those who want immediate engineering, and those who believe in building resilience from the water up. Neither side is pure; both bear faces you know.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Put a hand up and ask for a minute to explain a hybrid plan") -> Reaction: "You raise your hand, and the floor shifts to listen. The heat of shared stakes flushes your cheeks as you outline, briefly, how living shorelines and targeted raised walkways might be sequenced together." || Choice B ("Stay quiet and let the experts argue") -> Reaction: "You bite your lip and tuck your hands into your jacket. The debate unspools without you, and a thin, guilty loneliness tugs at the back of your throat."] 

Jun nudges you after the projector clicks off and leans close, voice low enough that only you can hear.

Jun: "Say something, Mika. Cut the ribbon or stitch the net. They need someone who remembers what gets lost when plans come in polished and shiny."

You feel the impulse to be blunt—it's like a tool you reach for without thinking. The crowd expects speeches; you expect to fix things with your hands. But this time the fix isn't just a snapped pulley or a patched pump. It's people's homes, futures, livelihoods.

You stand because you always do, because absence is a choice too.

You: "We can't pretend there won't be trade-offs. If we raise a block of streets, we can't forget the fishermen who can't launch boats anymore. If we only plant kelp, we risk the immediate safety of some neighborhoods. We need both a map that shows where each tactic goes, and a plan to protect jobs day-to-day while we build resilience."

Mayor Amina listens, fingers steepled. The room leans in. Someone calls out a question; another suggests a committee. Your voice lands in the air, and the reactions are immediate—some nod, some mutter, some huff.

Soren (inclining his head, almost admiring): "That's the language of integration. A blend. Funding can follow a clear, stageable plan."

Elias (soft, hopeful): "And we can pilot kelp beds right off the old buoy line while crews build test segments of raised walkway that connect neighborhoods. We monitor, we adapt. We learn."

A woman at the back—an older fisher—raises her hand, knuckles white with sea callus.

Fisher: "We can't move fishing rights to the next bay. This is where our nets belong. Any plan that forgets that will break more than roads."

Riv, who has been pacing, suddenly claps loudly—an ignition.

Riv: "Then let's make sure the plan includes jobs. Let's make sure the training and hiring happen here, by us. We can man the kelp farms, we can help with technical crews, but not if outsiders just come in and take the work."

Mayor Amina: "Volunteers now. We need negotiators, testers, data teams, and outreach crews. Who will step up to work with planners, scientists, and residents to make a staged plan? This can't be a handful of speeches. It has to be measurable."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Volunteer to negotiate with Soren's planners") -> Reaction: "You step forward and say you'll talk to the planners—partly to keep them honest, partly because you don't trust giving distance to decisions that affect your neighbors." || Choice B ("Volunteer to organize the pilot kelp team with Elias") -> Reaction: "You tell Elias you'll help schedule dives and community training. He smiles like someone who just found a new current to follow; you feel steadier, anchored to a clear task."] 

A chorus of hands goes up; Jun's broad palm slaps yours briefly in a private thank-you. Soren's smile is a small, strategic crescent that suggests deals already forming in his head. Elias's eyes are wet with relief—pure, immediate, as if someone finally handed the tide a direction.

Soren approaches you after the crowd begins to thin, his gait slow, respectful. He speaks as if offering a map.

Soren (quiet, direct): "Mika. I have some time tomorrow to walk the proposed raised zones. I'd like to show you the models privately—no cameras, no speeches. There's nuance that gets lost in a room like this."

You feel his words like a measuring tape between you—useful, precise, and a little invasive. There's something in the way he offers privacy that is both a courtesy and a maneuver. His voice has texture; a promise glossed in certainty.

Before you can answer, Elias comes up behind you, breath smelling faintly of metal and seawater from the projector setup. He speaks so close you feel the warmth of earnestness.

Elias: "If you've got the time, dawn at slip three? The subtidal site — I can take you on the skiff. The footage didn't capture the smell of kelp when it first catches—it's sharp, like green lightning. Seeing it makes the numbers mean something."

His hope is contagious, and the word 'dawn' tugs at memories of early mornings hauling nets with your mother. The idea of showing up at the waterline before the town wakes feels like a promise, not only to the science but to you.

Riv winds through the dispersing crowd and plants himself in front of you, eyes burning restless.

Riv: "Get the crew together. We start making noise that people can hear beyond these harbor lights. Training rosters, handbills, a work party for the pilings. If the town sees people building, not just arguing, they'll follow."

You can almost hear the town at a hinge. Your throat tightens; the old habit of carrying everything returns like a reflex. Asking for help feels like admitting you can't hold it alone, and admission has always been the hardest repair.

Jun squeezes your shoulder, steady as a brace.

Jun: "You don't have to lug the whole harbor, Mik. Not alone."

Your hands curl at your sides. You think of the dented key warm against your palm in the morning, of the greenhouse lamps that taught seedlings how to trust light. You think of Elias's maps and Soren's glossy models and the fisher's callused hand—each a piece of the same brittle whole.

You realize—clearly—what you can't do alone. The town is not a single body you can patch with a single stitch. It is a net: if one strand snaps, the whole holds differently.

[Sound: A low, hopeful chord builds in the string section]
[Visual: Close-up on your face as the harbor light slivers across your eyes]

You let Jun's hand stay on your shoulder. You let Riv's urgency turn into a plan that might run all the way to dawn. You let Elias's invitation feel like a lifeline, not an imposition. And when Soren's gaze meets yours again, you don't turn away.

Page-Turn Thought: The warehouse empties but the air hums with new work — meetings to schedule, crews to assemble, skiffs to prepare. Dawn will come with cold fingers and bright possibilities. Tonight, voices have aligned into starting points rather than final answers. You take a breath, feeling the weight of the town in your palms and the strange, rising ease of not carrying it alone.

[Visual: The harbor lights waver; a lantern is put out; footsteps echo as people descend the gangway]
[Music: Strings resolve into a warm, steady pulse]
[Sound: The distant slap of water against the pilings, steady as a heartbeat]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}