[Scene: Council Hall | Dusk]
[Visual: The concrete façade of Council Hall under a bruised, oil-slick sky; people thread along the terrace toward the heavy doors]
[Sound: A single bell tolls; low murmur of a crowd; distant gulls]
[Music: Low cello sustains, a steady restless pulse]

You step through the doors with the waterproof folder pressed flat against your ribs. The smell that hits you first is rain on concrete — sharp, metallic — layered under fluorescent antiseptic and the deeper, older scent of salt and frying oil that follows the town like an argument not yet settled. The hall is a reef of murmurs: neighbors clustered into knots, investors with stiff shoulders and soft voices, a handful of cameras that reflect the room back at itself in cold lenses.

[Visual: Wide shot — dais with council table, podium at the center, rows of folding chairs packed tight; a line of municipal banners flutters sadly by the terrace windows]
[Sound: Chairs scrape; someone coughs; a microphone emits a soft feedback pop]

Your compass, brass and familiar, rests warm against your throat through your shirt. It is a small, private weight, a metronome you have carried since you were small enough to tuck it into your fist. Tonight it feels like a lodestone, dragging every worry toward one point: the dais.

You scan the crowd. Abuela Rosa sits near the front, hands folded in an old apron, her face a pleasant map of lines and memory. Mateo stands a little back, jaw set, fishing jacket clinging wet to his shoulders—he watches the dais with a steadiness that makes your chest ache because you know how often he has simply shown up. Sofía is perched on the edge of a chair, skateboard by her feet, eyes like a flare of impatience and indignation.

And Elias — you find him near a bank of portable displays, fingers lingering over a prototype sensor as if it will answer the question he cannot say out loud. He catches your eye. For a moment a private thing passes between you: a quick, guarded smile, an attempt at comfort that is also a plea. He tucks the smile away, professional demeanor back on like a vest.

[Visual: Close-up on Elias; his amber-brown eyes seek yours and then look away when Council Chair clears their throat]

Chair: "—If we can come to order, please. Tonight's meeting will be recorded. Representatives from the funding collective are here, as are engineers and community liaisons. Each proposal will be allotted time for presentation and then public comment."

The room hushes just enough for the damp cold to feel heavier. You feel your own breath loud in your ears.

Iris approaches the podium with that practiced gait — efficient, long strides, the weight of decisions visible in the set of her shoulders. Her hair is pulled back, her pen flashed briefly as a metronome. The room leans in. When she speaks, it is with the bite of someone who has practiced this moment against harsher winds.

Iris Varela: "Puerto Alba has fourteen months, at best, before the next seasonal swell overwhelms the lower promenade. We cannot afford experiments that risk another failure. My proposal is straightforward: a centralized, rapid-deployment barrier contract that locks in funding immediately. It secures seventy percent of residential areas and the commercial strip. It reduces immediate risk and buys us time."

Her words find purchase in the room in small, sharp clicks. There are nods. There are faces that go still with relief. But there are also furrows: you see them in Abuela Rosa's eyes, not disapproval so much as calculation — what will be given, what will be taken.

Mateo's voice cuts across the soft applause like a rope through surf. Mateo: "Seventy percent? What does that mean for the fishing ramps, for the marsh gardens? Who loses ground when you choose lines on a map?"

Iris: (calm, almost clinical) "Some concessions are inevitable. We prioritize human life and the town's economic spine. We will compensate where possible."

The word "compensate" lands like a coin you can already see rolling away.

You feel a hollow open beneath your ribs. The possibility of safety seeded by a price that the town, in parts, will pay. You think of the boat your father ran, the barn you helped mend as a child, the way a shoreline is not simply land but memory stitched into weathered wood.

[Sound: A low chorus of objections; a camera click; the whine of the lights]

Before the murmurs spread too far, Elias steps forward to the second mic. He moves with the careful grace of someone trained to listen to materials and to people. His voice is softer than Iris's, and in that soft there is earnestness that sits like a finger pressed to a pulse.

Elias Park: "We can't afford to be reckless, but neither can we afford a solution that erases the town we're trying to save. Our pilot is modular — low-footprint barriers that adapt as conditions change, sensors for ongoing feedback, and a built-in governance model that gives community members veto power over installation zones."

He looks at you when he says "veto power." The look is expectant, as though your voice could make the model whole.

Iris: (interrupting, sharper) "Modular is fine where time is luxury. This town has a storm calendar and investors who are not infinite in patience. Pilots means pilots next year, and a year can drown more than memories."

Elias: (holding a hand up) "It's not a delay—it's a framework for long-term safety. We can start immediately with the pilot in high-risk zones while marsh restoration begins alongside. It keeps livelihoods intact and gives us real-time data to scale."

The crowd splits along those words. A few people clap, hopeful; others mutter, afraid. A camera pans to the investor table where a woman in a raincoat with a neutral face nods like a metronome, and your throat tightens because you know nods carry contracts.

Abuela Rosa stands — slowly, not with anger but with a weighty thought. She speaks with the authority of someone whose life has been stitched to the tides.

Abuela Rosa: "My family tended these marshes for fifty years. If you call this 'restoration' and it becomes a staged photo-op, I will not stand for it. Words alone do not bring back the land. Someone must care for it day by day."

Iris: (softening only enough) "We can structure oversight. We can write terms. But we must act. The sea does not negotiate."

Sofía, young and fierce, shouts from the back: "We shouldn't give them the keys to our town! Tech sounds like fixing the symptoms, not the cause!"

Her voice is raw and clear and lands hard. A part of you wants to stand with her and another part of you hates the simplicity of that anger because the calculus is not simple at all.

You feel the room hinge on something small and sharp — a deciding moment — and the hum of the fluorescent lights seems to swell. The emotional pressure builds, not into panic, but into a steady crescendo. Your pulse adjusts to the cadence of the room: fear, calculation, grief.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step up and ask Elias for a one-on-one after the meeting") -> Reaction: "You catch Elias's eye and hover near the riser; he nods once, the hint of a promise that you'll talk later." || Choice B ("Stay where you are and watch Iris's next words") -> Reaction: "You fold your hands tighter around the folder and let Iris finish; her certainty weighs the air thicker."]

Elias turns back to the audience, and the tone between him and Iris tightens into something like negotiation and something like performance—the two often look the same under cameras.

Elias Park: "We can pilot within weeks with local crews. Mateo—" (he nods toward Mateo) "—your teams could run the install and receive training, ensuring livelihoods aren't displaced. We want the town directing the experiment."

Mateo: (short) "Training is fine. But who pays the bills when fishing stalls and the shore shifts? You promise jobs, but promises need payors and timelines."

Nima, watching from near Elias, intervenes with a practical cadence: "Investors want measurable outcomes. We can provide them within three months with baseline sensors, but their funds hinge on scalability and timelines."

Iris: (an edge) "So your 'pilot' is a product to be scaled. Then why don't we scale what we know works now? Speed keeps people safe."

Elias: (quietly) "Because what you call 'works' has left whole communities with nowhere to return when the next fix ages and fails. The scale without stewardship is what breaks lives."

The room fills with the sound of paper shuffling and an undercurrent of argument. Cameras tilt, catching each expression and flattening them into headlines to come.

You want to speak. All the maps in your folder flutter like small exhalations of doubt. You imagine the faces that will be read off those maps as statistics later: homes dissolved into sandlines, gardens given up under the promise of protection. Your stubborn empathy — the part of you that still believes people must be held whole — swells into a demand that someone translate these things into language the room will hear.

But there's fear too: if you demand too much nuance, the investors may slam the funding door. If you demand speed, you may preside over losses you cannot forgive yourself for. The calculus is cold and the stakes are human.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Open with grief — tell the room about your father's boat and what was lost") -> Reaction: "You feel the memory rise raw and cold; telling it will make this personal, and the room will listen differently, but it may also make you appear less 'policy-ready'." || Choice B ("Start with data — lay out the maps and timelines to argue for a phased plan") -> Reaction: "You steady your hands on the folder and imagine converting grief into charts; numbers may convince investors, but they could flatten the human cost into spreadsheets."]

Behind you, a reporter leans forward, whispered question audible to those nearest: "Mara Serrano—will you be speaking for the community tonight?"

The room's attention corrals toward you. For a beat the hall becomes a taut wire between two cliffs: one labeled "Immediate Security," the other "Community Integrity." You feel the brass compass thrum at your throat as if it were a second heartbeat.

Elias glances toward you again, more urgently this time, and his face says what his words have not: he needs you. Not to save his proposal, not only, but because wherever you point your voice, people listen. Iris's stare, narrow and steel-blue, meets yours across the hall with that unspoken ledger: decisions must be made and she will make them if no one else will.

You step forward because silence is also a decision and because there are people behind you whose lives are measured in tides and time. Your breathing is careful, the mid-level arousal in your limbs — alert, steady, burdened.

Chair: "Ms. Serrano, the floor is yours."

Your throat tightens. You can feel the room leaning on you, like a gust toward a cliff edge. You know who will applaud, who will boo, who will hold their breath. Your mouth is a small, hot thing in a cold room.

And then, before your voice leaves the place in your chest, the choices line up like buoys in fog.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Publicly choose the path that defines the next weeks.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Support Elias's pilot and insist on community partnership.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Back Iris's rapid structural contract to secure immediate funding.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Propose a community-first hybrid: small defenses, marsh restoration, and conditional investment.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}