[Scene: The Old Quay | Evening]
[Visual: Lanterns strung along the soaked pilings; the water mirrors a bruised-sapphire sky. A weathered tarp serves as a screen; a small solar projector hums.]
[Music: Warm, steady strings with a hopeful undercurrent]
[Sound: Low murmur of the crowd, water lapping against wood, a distant gull]

You step up onto the platform—half-stage, half-pier—your boots finding familiar give in the old boards. Your notebook is tucked into your jacket; the last slide glows faintly on the tarp behind you: "We are the tide's keepers—together."

Around you the town folds in: faces rimmed by lantern light, children squirming on laps, fishermen with sleeves rolled to the elbow, artisans with salt-streaked hair. The air smells of citrus from Elena's parcels, of diesel from the small boats, of the salt-and-peat that is home. Even the damp wood seems like a willing audience.

You breathe once and feel the tide beneath you—literal and metaphorical—steady, inevitable. This is the moment the plan either finds legs or becomes a lesson for later. You remember your pen hovering over the tagline and a small, private smile loosens something in your chest. You do this for them.

[Visual: Close-up on the projector as the first slide—maps, cost curves, a photograph of a child kneeling in mud planting a sapling—fades in]

Aria Navarro: "Thank you all for coming. I want to start not with numbers, but with this—" (you tap the photograph) "—because resilience begins with hands as much as it begins with engineering. Tonight I’ll show you both: what the data says, what the coastline needs, and how we can let science and tradition steer the same boat."

You pace your words like placing stones across a current. You weave tide-monitoring graphs into a story: sensor nodes that light up before surges, seedlings that survive when community care overlaps with careful site selection, modular blocks that can be shifted as shorelines change. Each slide is a small argument, each pause an invitation.

Dr. Kavir Singh steps up beside you, voice low and precise.

Dr. Kavir Singh: "The projections show a range of likely scenarios—some faster than others. We can model outcomes, give probabilities. But models need people: maintenance, watchfulness, and governance."

You feel the nods ripple through the crowd. The mayor watches from the front row, tablet balanced on her knee; Elena folds her hands in her lap, eyes steady and wet with concern. Sora stands with arms crossed, a strand of hair catching the lantern light. Mateo shifts his weight on the edge of the pier, fingers around his multi-tool—practical, ready.

Sora Lin: "Numbers are necessary, Aria, but numbers without story are things that happen to people. Mangroves do more than buffer—they feed memory, hold nursery grounds, make work for our kids. We can get volunteers in the water by next week if you give them the plan and the seedlings."

Mateo Hale: "Mangroves are vital—I'm not arguing that. But a seedling takes years before it can block a storm surge we might face this season. People have homes, bills, kids in school. We can deploy modular levees in weeks. That keeps people safe now."

Sora's mouth tightens; Mateo's jaw does, too. Their voices are contained, but the air between them hums. They do not look at each other directly; they look at you as if your framing could reconcile an impossible geometry.

You step in, feeling the weight of being the bridge.

Aria Navarro: "Both of you are right. The question isn't whether one is better than the other in absolute terms—it's about timing, ownership, and what we can commit to as a town. My proposal lays out three pathways—deployable adaptive infrastructure, community-led restoration, and a hybrid pilot that ties the two together under a council of residents and specialists."

A woman near the front calls out, voice roughened by sea and work.

Audience Member: "How much will it cost? Who pays? And will it mean taking land away from families?"

Elena Navarro meets the woman’s eyes and speaks as if passing a torch.

Elena: "We can't barter our children's future for a quick fix. But we also can't watch roofs blow off. We need a plan that keeps people here while the shore heals."

Her words hit like a warm tide. They are not academic; they are maternal and exact. The crowd murmurs in agreement.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Look toward Mateo, search his face for the plan he carries") -> Reaction: "You catch Mateo's profile in the lantern light—tight, focused. He taps his compass as if counting time. The weight of urgency presses against your ribs." || Choice B ("Meet Sora's eyes and let their determination anchor you") -> Reaction: "Sora's eyes flash; they gesture toward the water with a hush of old songs. You feel the kinetic optimism that gathers volunteers around them." || Choice C ("Glance at the projected slide and breathe to steady your voice") -> Reaction: "You inhale, steady the slide remote with fingers that don't shake. The data waits for you, patient and impartial."] 

You choose with a half-breath—small, private—and the world reshifts. The choice doesn't decide policy; it reorders your pulse, and that matters.

Mateo steps forward, and when he speaks his words come out precise and tangible.

Mateo Hale: "We can stage modular walls in phases. We can protect the most at-risk blocks without bulldozing people's lives. It's deployable, reversible. We measure success in weeks and months, not just seasons. The municipality can underwrite emergency deploys—it's what we should do."

A woman in the back calls, "And if the money runs out?"

Mateo Hale: "Then we prioritize—schools, hospitals, elder housing. We don't gamble with lives."

Sora counters, voice rising, fingers finding the string of sea-glass beads at their wrist.

Sora Lin: "If you build walls first, you don't fix what the sea needs. You channel the water, you kill the nursery. We have knowledge—where to plant, which channels heal—which elders remember. We can organize labor, teach kids to steward—this root work is also an economy."

There is friction now—sharp but not angry—between immediacy and futureproofing. Your presentation becomes an arena for that friction. You do not want to choose for them, but the mayor's face betrays pressure: insurance payouts, political calendars, the eyes of neighboring towns watching for how this community adapts.

Dr. Kavir raises a hand, palms open.

Dr. Kavir Singh: "There is evidence that hybrid approaches can outperform either alone, especially in variable climates. Small structural interventions can buy the time ecological systems need to establish. But governance is the trick: who keeps up the modulars? Who tends the nurseries?"

Aria Navarro (Thinking): "Governance—this is the hinge. If we make it communal, we give people agency. If we let the municipal calendar dictate, we lose that agency. But timelines matter—people need something now."

You find your voice into a quieter, steadier register.

Aria Navarro: "If we do anything, it must keep people safe now and cultivate resilience for the longer term. That means commitments—financial, labor, and legal—that bind whatever we build to the hands that will keep it."

The crowd listens, leaning in. You can feel the arc of hope in the room: it's not naïve; it's deliberate. You see teenagers who came because Sora painted posters, engineers from neighboring islands, and your mother with her wrapped parcel of warmed cod and citrus. All of them are stakes.

Mayor Isla Cortez stands; the sash at her shoulder catches the lantern light, and she clears her throat—businesslike, even-tempered, the kind of person who must turn pressure into policy.

Mayor Isla Cortez: "Aria, you've given us the range. The council needs direction. Which of these three immediate approaches do you propose the municipality put into motion tonight?"

The question lands like a bell. The quay hushes; the only sound is the water pulling at the pilings. You sense the whole town waiting—some with hope, some with fear, all with heavy investment.

Your mind catalogs the things you can measure: deployment time, sapling survivorship rates, budget shortfalls. It also catalogs the unmeasurable: trust built at seedlings-and-soup evenings, the steadiness of hands that know the tides, the quiet repairs of relationships when people work side by side. The decision you frame tonight will steer not just engineering or ecology, but how your neighbors see themselves: as objects of aid or active keepers of their shore.

Sora's gaze is unreadable—an ember of optimism wrapped in worry. Mateo looks resolute, every inch of him prepared to mobilize men and machines. Elena holds your hand briefly; her grip says everything a speech cannot. Dr. Kavir's face is practical, but his eyes shine with the same hope you feel.

You inhale, the salt air filling you like a ledger of obligations and possibility. You know, deep in the marrow, that this town's future will be chosen by a phrase you put into municipal language: a frame, a priority, a call to arms.

Aria Navarro: "Mayor—" (you let your words be the bridge) "—the motion I ask you to carry for tonight will be clear, actionable, and rooted in the town's long-term stewardship. We must choose one of three immediate paths:"

[Visual: The tarp behind you cycles through the three options—each rendered briefly with an icon: a modular block, a sapling, and an interlocking symbol for hybrid]

[Sound: A single, hopeful chord held by the strings]

You stop. The room inhales with you. This is the fork.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "You must frame the town's immediate approach and steer the official vote.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We prioritize deployable adaptive infrastructure—seawalls and modular levees—so we buy time and protect homes.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We commit to community-led ecological restoration—massive mangrove and seagrass planting—so we build long-term resilience.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We launch a hybrid pilot: small adaptive modules plus accelerated restoration, decided by a community council.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}