[Scene: Wall's Lee | Early Morning]
[Visual: Cedar planters newly anchored along the lee of the floodwall; small green crowns of spartina and salt-tolerant sedges hiss with dew. Photographers’ tripods line the boardwalk. A low press banner flutters against matte concrete.]
[Sound: Camera shutters, distant gulls, the steady sluice of tidewater through an engineered culvert]
[Music: A cautious, airy piano motif—hope that still feels brittle]

You stand with your palms pressed to cool cedar, fingers tracing the damp grain. The planters smell faintly of sap and seaweed. For a breath — for exactly the space between one shutter click and the next — you allow yourself the ridiculous luxury of believing in a middle path. The photographs look right: green against concrete, hands-on solutions grafted to hard infrastructure, a neat rhetorical bridge between the town that built the wall and the town that keeps the tide in mind.

Lydia steps up beside you, her slate tucked like a talisman. Her smile is trained for the cameras and the calculus behind it.

Lydia: "This will shift public perception. Small habitats, visible stewardship — it humanizes protection. Investors like visible diplomacy."

Investor Rep (through Lydia): "We want proof it mitigates risk. Show durability over six months. That’s sufficient for through-quarter reporting."

You answer for both project and people, voice steady because you have to be.

Marin Solace: "These pockets slow flow and provide nursery refuge. They're not glamorous, but they function with the system's rhythms—if we monitor and adapt."

Asha arrives, mud still on her boots, and squeezes your shoulder. Her grin is tired but real.

Asha: "See? They love the green. Raff's livestream did the rest. People feel seen."

You look toward the water. Jonah's silhouette on the far dock is a score you can't yet read; his hands rest on the rail like chords. He nods once, a punctuation you keep for yourself. For another breath, the compromise holds like a taut string.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step forward and pose with Lydia for the press") -> Reaction: "You step into the frame, your jacket clasped tight. Cameras find the precise angle where community and engineering blur into a single image. Lydia's smile widens; a headline is born." || Choice B ("Correct the press brief before the shots go live") -> Reaction: "You lean into the journalist, voice low and urgent. A line is clarified — 'adaptive monitoring' — and the photographer hesitates, then snaps. The caption will be different, but the clock is already moving."]

[Visual: Montage—photo feeds, social posts, a short interview clip of you saying 'community stewardship,' the town's mural visible behind you.]
[Music: Minor key strings under the montage; the hopeful light feels thinner now]

You watch the traction you created fold into a public narrative. It feels effective. It feels necessary. It also feels, in some private place, like a ledger you haven't balanced.

[Scene: Nursery Estuary | Two Weeks Later | Low Tide, Overcast]
[Visual: The estuary ragged where it once sloped into ribboned marsh. Sandbars have been scoured into new, ugly channels. Clumps of sedge hang from rock like hair.]
[Sound: The hollow clack of broken piping, a single gull calling with no reply, the intermittent clatter of a distant tide gauge failing]
[Music: A low, threadbare cello — one long note decaying into silence]

You arrive and your boots sink into a mud that smells of iron and rot. The cedar planters nearest the wall are intact, green and tidy — a photo op preserved — but the estuary beyond them looks violated. Water has found new geometry against the wall's altered angles and has carved like a tool. Nursery flats you helped shape lie exposed like a reversed palm: veins of sediment where juvenile shellfish used to burrow; stranded wrens and a dozen small birds clustered on a broken piling, feathers slicked and salt-weighted.

Your stomach recoils. You know the sound of a plan being exposed as insufficient because you've stayed up late imagining failure modes. Reading them in the field is another thing entirely.

Soundbite clips start to bloom on your phone, sent from Raff and picked up by channels you don't like. A journalist's voice overlays shaky footage: "—unexpected scour at the estuary, conservationists alarmed—."

Lydia's voice arrives through the pavilion-line, clipped and corporate.

Lydia (on call): "This is an extreme event; the surge was well outside the return interval our models emphasized. We can commission an after-action review—"

Marin Solace: (You cut in before the explanation finishes, because words either happen now or they become accusations later.) "Extreme doesn't mean impossible. The angles at the lee changed flow paths. We need immediate reassessment of downstream hydraulics."

Lydia: "We will look at all variables. Public communications need to be measured. Investors are concerned about narrative drift."

Investor Rep (via text, then call): "Cost overruns are visible. We need assurances that this doesn't become a cascading liability."

Asha kneels beside a collapsed marsh plug, hands in mud, lifting a strand of root matter like a tiny accusation.

Asha: "We didn't model this coupling well. When you tied vegetative pockets to the wall geometry, we didn't have the whole system in motion. We thought—"

Marin Solace: "We did what we could with the information we convinced them to fund. We asked for monitoring. We asked for contingency."

Asha: "That wasn't enough."

Your throat tightens. The words 'not enough' collect like rain on a flat roof.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Wade into the water to inspect the scoured channel personally") -> Reaction: "Cold water takes your knees. You measure, press your fingers against the cut bank, and the clay gives. Your hands find a juvenile crab's claw and it snaps uselessly. You note coordinates, you write, you swear inwardly at the smallness of your instruments." || Choice B ("Document carefully and call for expert hydrology support") -> Reaction: "You step back and set up your phone, narrating the damage. Your voice stays level on the livestream, explaining the likely flow separation and requesting a rapid modeling calibration. It will be public. It might buy you a kind of transparency that looks like competence."]

[Sound: The beep of incoming media clips. Someone in the distance shouts; the tide gauge at the mouth of the estuary chirps irregularly.]
[Music: A thin wind-score — anxiety made audible]

The media montage is merciless. Close-ups of stranded chicks. Aerial shots of sediment streaming from the altered lee in brown ribbons. A commentary voice: "Did the integrated habitats cause downstream erosion? Who's to blame?"

On the pavilion's polished screens, one of Lydia's analysts points to anomaly charts, fingers tracing a jagged spike.

Lydia: "The weather station reported unusual upstream surge velocities. We cannot reasonably attribute this to the localized elements until the review is complete."

Investor Rep: "We need mitigation NOW or we pull funding. Show us a path to absolute assurance."

The language slides from technical contingency to legal certainty. You feel the air being extracted from the room.

[Scene: Jonah's Dock | Dusk]
[Visual: Jonah's dock — once neat planks and carefully tied mooring— now undermined, a chunk of pilings sheared where eddying flows have taken hold. A small tarp flaps against a pile of detritus. Jonah stands with a crowbar, hands dark as old rope.]
[Sound: The groan of a loose board, a distant muttered radio update, the soft thud of a drawer closing]
[Music: Sparse, intimate piano — the kind that underscores conversation with heavy subtext]

You enter and the smell of diesel and wet wood hits you like a memory. Jonah's face is stoic in the gray light. He sets his sketchbook down on the workbench, closes it with more force than necessary, and slides it into the top drawer.

Jonah: (He doesn't look at you) "Look what they did. Look what we did."

You walk closer; your boots echo. The sketchbook's cover is worn, pages filled with plans and poems both. He doesn't take it out.

Marin Solace: "We tried to balance access and protection. The planters were supposed to help nursery recruitment, not this."

Jonah: (His voice is small but sharp) "They used your face as proof we'd been consulted. They used your name."

Marin Solace: "They did involve the cooperative. I sat at the liaison table. We got things in. I thought—"

Jonah: "You thought they'd listen. You thought being inside would change the outcome."

You both say enough to make the wound open again. He looks at you now, searching for something: apology, defense, an explanation that undoes the rows. You have none that satisfy. You try a small factual approach and it rubs raw.

Marin Solace: "I pushed for monitoring and adaptive clauses. I argued for oversight. But decisions on drainage geometry and procurement weren't always ours."

Jonah: (He laughs once, bitter) "They needed your legitimacy. You gave it, and then other hands decided how to build the joints."

Your internal dialogue collides with his words. You remember the nights you spent drafting clauses, the meetings where you soft-pedaled possibilities to keep the dialogue open. Each compromise had felt like a bridge at the time. Standing here, it looks like a paper scaffold in the rain.

Asha arrives, hair damp, eyes rimmed. She doesn't speak right away. Instead she kneels beside a piece of fairing timber that once sat under Jonah's skiff and holds it like liturgy.

Asha: "We can salvage some parts. Raff can get volunteers. The cooperative can—"

Jonah: "Volunteers won't pay for pilings. It won't buy the lost season."

Silence knits itself between you. For a sustained moment, your shared past is visible in the lines of his face, the salt in his hair, the small rope bracelet he wears. The something that used to exist between 'us' and 'work' is complicated now by loss.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Reach out your hand and offer to help shore the dock tonight") -> Reaction: "Your hand is steady. Jonah closes his fist around it—first a clasp, then a release. There is a short, knuckled agreement: a plank will be lifted, a tide will be read, small, necessary labor. The repair won't fix the estuary, but it will stop the dock from sliding away tonight." || Choice B ("Step back and say you need to collect your notes and speak to Lydia") -> Reaction: "You step away, voice controlled but distant. Jonah watches you go and the drawer snaps shut behind you. The sketchbook is a thin barrier between you now; words will come later, and they might not heal."]

Your chest aches with influence that has gone sour. You had imagined that being inside the pavilion was messy but meaningful. Now that image fragments into the reality of wedge decisions made without full-system modeling, of investors insisting on speed and visibility, of your presence turned into a seal that the process was inclusive.

At night, you go back to the Saltworks because the cooperative is where the weight of responsibility sits heaviest. You lay out the messages, the footage, the timelines. You trace, with a shaky finger, the moments when you chose to add rather than veto; the moments you chose to accept a qualifier to keep a seat at the table. The list reads less like strategy and more like a tally of small cedings.

Asha: "People are angry in the feeds. Mae is calling for a town meeting. Ben wants a mediated hearing. And Lydia keeps recommending 'calibrated communications.'"

Marin Solace: (You think, and your thought comes out as if you're talking to the room) "Our peak of influence was the moment we were asked not to disrupt the schedule. They wanted our voice without our veto."

Asha: "We were trying to be pragmatic. We had leverage and we used it the way we thought would save the most."

Marin Solace: "But pragmatism should not be an excuse for my silence when I saw a system-bound risk. I can hear every hopeful clause folded into a headline now and it sounds like a cover."

[Sound: Rain begins again—soft at first, then steady; the town's lights smear into damp pools]
[Music: Long, descending piano lines; the harmony resolves into a single, final minor chord]

You slide your satchel from your shoulder and open it. The handouts you printed for the liaison meetings are there, dog-eared and patched with sticky notes. Your bracelet catches the lamplight. You press the leather to your palm like something living and fragile. Outside, the community gardens on the lee of the wall glow with the last of the day's amber light; the green patches that soothed headlines are still there. They look small now against the scoured estuary.

You remember the people whose faces are in the footage — children who used to paddle in those flats, fishermen who relied on recruits for the next season, Mae's old hands that have seen more tides than you have. Your actions are no longer an abstract of policy; they are an index of harm and of hope both.

You could list every technical justification you offered. You could catalogue every modeling gap. You could name people, procedures, constraints. You do not, because naming won't reverse the sediment pulled from the nursery flats or the season the dock will lose. Instead, in the long, thin hour before the council convenes tomorrow, you do the smallest thing you can manage: you take out your own notebook and write a single sentence as if it were a prayer and as if paper could hold the tide.

Marin Solace (narration): "I accepted a role to influence from within. Influence came, briefly, as applause and photographs. Then it became proof and then it became an alibi."

You fold the paper, slide it into the satchel, and close it because closure, of the tidy kind, is not a thing you deserve. The town will hold hearings. Lydia will commission reviews. Investors will demand numbers and timelines and guarantees you cannot, in good conscience, supply. Jonah will assess repairs that may take money he doesn't have. Asha will organize the volunteers who still show up, because they always do.

You stand on the Saltworks' north window and watch the estuary at a distance: the brown veins of sediment glowing under cold light, a single gull beating out of the sky. The cooperative's masks of green along the wall are visible as small islands in a larger bruise. You feel the shape of your agency like a fossil in your chest — something that once moved slowly through a body now fossilized under strain.

There is no dramatic epiphany, no sanctuary offered by enemies' defeat. There is, instead, a slow settling into a new vocabulary: responsibility that will not be absolved by testimony or consultancy, grief that will not be soothed by press releases, and a work that is longer than any project timeline.

You put your hand on the satchel and let the salt in the air dry on your skin. You let the rain do what rain does: wash names from the pavement, make footprints bright and then dull. In the quiet that follows, you fold your shoulders against the wind and listen to the town—its anger, its pleas, its small practical delegations of hope—and you decide, in the way decisions sometimes happen: not with a single sharp turn but with the gravity of accumulated regret and the shape of the work still left to do.

You do not have to know how the next years will tilt. You have only to answer to the people whose faces you can see in the traffic and the tide. You will answer. It will not be enough to fix everything. It will be enough to begin, again and with clearer fault lines.

[Visual: Slow pull back from the Saltworks window to the estuary at dusk; the town's lights breathe, fragile and continual]
[Music: A single violin bows out, thin and honest]

[ENDING]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}