[Scene: Havenpoint Boardwalk | Evening]
[Visual: A long row of rain-speckled bulbs; steam rising from vendor stalls; the pavilion on the bluff a clinical glow above the shoreline]
[Sound: Distant tide, soft chatter, the low rumble of inverters from Greenridge carried on the wind]
[Music: Warm strings with a steady, hopeful undercurrent]

You step from the Saltworks into the wet halo of the boardwalk and feel the map, rolled at your hip, weigh like a small promise. The fabric of your jacket is damp at the shoulders; the leather of your satchel smells faintly of kelp preserves and ink. The air tastes of iron and old rope and the bright, sharp salt you know by habit.

The hearing is set beneath a scattering of bulbs that blur the rain into tiny constellations. People fill folding chairs, cluster by stalls, lean against the floodwall; their faces are a ledger of the town—lined hope, skeptical squints, children with sticky hands. Jonah sits in the front row, the rusted whistle between his fingers tapping a slow, subconscious rhythm. When his eyes find you, something steadies you: a warm, steady beacon in a night of decisions.

[Visual: Close on Jonah—amber-brown eyes, salt on his jacket cuff; hands curled around the whistle]
[Sound: The faint rattle of the whistle against Jonah's knuckles]
[Music: A single piano note that lingers with anticipation]

Ben Rhee steps up to the modest podium, his tie still damp at the knot. He meets the crowd with an engineer's smile—careful, practiced—and taps the microphone.

Ben Rhee: "Thank you all for braving the weather. We'll hear from Marin Solace first. Marin, the floor is yours."

You inhale. The air fills your lungs like something you are reclaiming.

Marin Solace: (You clear your throat, feeling the rolled map at your hip.) "Good evening. I'm Marin Solace. I grew up watching my family mend nets on this waterfront. Tonight I want to talk about ways we keep our homes—and keep the water working for us—without writing off the bay."

You can feel the town leaning forward. Someone laughs—short, relieved—when you mention nets; an old man in a fisherman's cap nods, hands weathered into applause.

You begin with plain language because plain language is a promise you can hold. You describe permeable terraces: layered beds of native cordgrass and sediment traps that slow surge energy and give the shoreline something to hold onto. You speak of marsh revetments—engineered living shorelines that marry rock, plant, and rope to cushion wave impact rather than repel it outright.

[Visual: Shots of Asha, handing around damp soil plugs; Raff's phone screen cycling footage of a prototype marsh-form in simulated surge]
[Sound: Low murmur as prototype samples are passed; the soft patter of rain]
[Music: A gentle, rising string motif—hope threading through explanation]

Marin Solace: "These are not stopgaps. They're adaptive systems—intended to be repaired and improved by the people who live beside them. They sequester carbon, they support fish habitat, and they keep fishermen on the water."

Asha moves through the crowd, offering damp plugs and pointing out the root structure. Her eyes meet yours—tired and fierce. Raff's handheld plays footage of last month's prototype holding against a simulated surge; the clip draws sympathetic gasps and a few impressed whistles.

Raff: (from the side, with the brash grin that always makes the crowd warmer) "We filmed the test from the deck. It didn't just hold—the little crabs came back right after. Look."

Someone near the back calls out: "How long until it works?"

The question hangs heavy with practical anxiety. You answer in mechanics and empathy, fingers skimming the map for the right place.

Marin Solace: "Pilots take time—start small, learn, iterate. But they also put control back in our hands. Volunteers maintain them; local labor—Jonah's shop included—retrofits docks around the pilots. And funding is conditional: we don't accept a blank check. We accept support tied to oversight and adaptive metrics."

Jonah's thumb presses the whistle. You can feel the pulse of his faith in your plan. It steadies you. Ben nods once, a small encouragement, then gestures toward the bluff where the pavilion's light cuts the rain.

[Visual: Lydia descending the temporary steps onto the boardwalk—platinum bob immaculate, trench coat shedding rain like the surface of new glass]
[Sound: A different rhythm arrives with her—a confident, efficient clip of heels; a murmur of expectation]
[Music: A crisp electronic counterpoint enters, suggesting scale and speed]

Lydia steps forward with her crisp slate clamped at her hip. Her voice carries like well-aired policy.

Lydia: "Havenpoint needs rapid, visible protection. My team's seawall design is engineered to a 1-in-200 standard. It is funded, shovel-ready, and measurable. We can protect two thousand linear meters in eighteen months. There's political appetite, and investors are already lined up."

Her numbers are a wave with a bright edge—powerful, immediate. She speaks of timelines and contracts, of investor confidence that will bring jobs and a glossy assurance the town can point to. The pavilion above her glows like a promise.

Ben Rhee: (moderating) "Lydia, Marin—thank you. We'll open the floor for questions and rebuttals."

A rustling through the crowd. The rain seems to hush in a conspiratorial breath.

Before the first question, there's a small, split second where you can choose how to hold the room—an intimate personal anchor or a technical counterweight. It feels important, and it matters only for now.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Open with a short story about working the old moorings") -> Reaction: "You step forward and tell a short story—hands and salt and the sound of the bay when the tide runs out. Heads tilt toward you. The room softens; skepticism thins into attention as people remember why they care. Jonah's smile is quiet, desperate, hopeful."] || Choice B ("Lead with the comparative metrics—failure rates, cost per meter") -> Reaction: "You pull out a small chart and walk them through comparative performance data: lifecycle costs, carbon payback timelines, and maintenance loops. The crowd listens with sharpened ears. Councilors lean in; investors scribble notes. A technical clarity settles over the audience, giving your words structural weight."]

Your choice—story or chart—ripples outward but the town is listening either way. You thread technical explanation with the human stakes because the two are braided here.

Questions come sharp and earnest. A dockhand asks about insurance; a grandmother asks about community plots being displaced; a councilor asks about permitting. You answer, and each answer is a negotiation: the person across from you doesn't just take information, they weigh whether your plan will keep them at the shoreline with dignity.

Lydia returns fire with the language of scale.

Lydia: "We have a contract structure that transfers risk. The seawall is clear liability—it's auditable, insurable, and it says to the world: Havenpoint is protected now. We can start construction within months."

There is applause at the promise of quick safety. It glitters with the same urgency that made you return to the town in the first place. You listen, cataloguing each phrase that might erode community control—'transfer risk', 'auditable', 'shovel-ready'—and also noticing how many hands in the crowd visibly relax at the thought of immediate shelter.

Ben raises his hand, curating the chorus.

Ben Rhee: "Marin, Lydia—this is the moment the council has to take a position on strategy. There are three pathways we can recommend. Marin, we'll let you respond."

You feel the weight of the room settle onto your shoulders like a tide pulling at the ankle—steady but insistent. Jonah's eyes are fixed on you, not pleading but counting on your steadiness. Behind him, Asha's jaw is set; Raff bobs his head in a rhythm that feels almost like prayer.

You take a breath that tastes like battery acid and chamomile—equal parts fear and fuel. Your voice is calmer than you feel.

Marin Solace: "We face a decision that's both technical and moral. We can move forward in a way that keeps people at the center, or we can accept rapid protection that may displace voices and habitats. We can also try to combine the strengths of both approaches if we do so without losing oversight."

Lydia tilts her head, the corner of her mouth almost smiling—she hears compromise as risk assessment. The crowd murmurs—leans, recoils, weighs.

Ben's question comes slow and deliberate, like the counting of a clock.

Ben Rhee: "Council and the community need direction. Do we recommend pursuing community-led pilots with conditional funding and oversight; negotiate a hybrid plan combining living shorelines with targeted engineering; or accept Lydia's rapid seawall plan for immediate protection?"

You can hear the three futures named like doors in a hallway. They hold different promises and different costs. You feel your seat at the table bearing down, and Jonah's eyes, warm and expectant, encourage you toward the choice that will shape the town for years.

[Visual: The crowd's faces—hope, fear, concentration—captured in the pool of bulb light]
[Sound: Rain softens to a steady patter; a single gull cries in the distance]
[Music: A hopeful swell; strings rising, a sense of upward motion]

You know what each door means—not just for infrastructure but for people. Each path will ripple outward across wages, moorings, habitat, memory. For a heartbeat you imagine all three becoming realities: the town learning and building, the hybrid bringing money and oversight, the seawall bringing immediate shelter.

You look to Jonah; his expression is complex, unreadable in the way lives and loyalties always are at moments like this. He doesn't tell you what to pick. He trusts you will account for what matters.

Ben waits, pen hovering.

The choice is the fork the whole chapter has been steering toward.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Choose Havenpoint’s strategic path at the hearing—how to respond to Lydia and the council.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Insist on community-led pilots and conditional funding",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Propose a negotiated hybrid plan: living shorelines plus targeted engineering",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Accept Lydia’s rapid seawall plan for immediate protection",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}