[Scene: Municipal Hall — Council Chamber | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Wide shot of the council chamber; rain streaks the tall windows. Puddles rim the plaza outside. Sheets of paper, legal pads, and a matte tablet cluster on the long wooden table.]
[Music: Tense strings under a staccato percussion; a heartbeat-like bass]
[Sound: Rain tapping hard; the low roll of distant thunder]

You come in with the weight of the plaza still on your shoulders—the mutter of banners, the wet smell of cardboard pamphlets, Mateo's breath warm with rain against your cheek. Here, under the council's high windows, everything feels magnified: the clauses, the promises, the people who will be split by whatever ink dries on these pages.

Councilor Rosa sits at the head, fingers steepled, her shawl damp at the edges. Etta is a small, stubborn presence pressed into a folding chair like a seed that refuses to let go. Elio is near the projection screen—calm, efficient, the room's fluorescence catching the edge of his trench coat like a halo of cold light. Jun leans back, arms crossed, eyes focused on the door as if storms might sweep in and take him away. Mateo stands by the window, hands deep in his pockets, jaw set.

Your tote with the camera and notes is heavy in the crook of your shoulder. You set it down and let your palms flatten on the council table. The paper feels slick under your skin.

Councilor Rosa: "We have a full day. Elio, you have the firm's draft. Etta, you have proposed covenants. Ari—" (a small nod) "—we'll rely on you to translate neighborhood concerns into the committee language."

You feel that familiar, sharp intake of breath: they are asking you to carry more than documents. You're being asked to shepherd voices into sentences sturdy enough to survive lawyers. The word "responsibility" thrums through your ribs like a bell.

Etta's voice is low but fierce when she leans forward. Etta: "People did not build this town to be walled off. We need covenants that keep our lands public—no privatized seawalls that cut access. We need cultural protections. We need guarantees that the nursery lands and the fishing paths stay for everyone."

She looks at you, and in her hazel eyes is the memory of a thousand seedlings pushed into sand. You remember the greenhouse's humid air and the insistence of small plants growing through salt. You remember promises made to people who cannot afford to be moved.

Elio taps the tablet and a slide washes over the screen—graphs, timelines, construction blueprints. Elio: "Speed and scale matter. The firm can deploy modular barriers within weeks. That mitigates immediate risk. Relocation offers are part of the package for those who choose it. Resilience bonds provide upfront capital to stabilize incomes while construction proceeds."

His tone is precise, like someone reading from a weather forecast: inevitable and unblinking. His eyes flick to you with the same steadiness—expectation baked into form.

You open your mouth to respond, then close it. There is a list of ways to say "not enough" without sounding like a refusal to save people. The halo of courtrooms and contracts loops in your head. You think of Jun's boat, of the patch of marsh Etta showed you where juvenile crabs had started returning. You think of Mateo's prototypes in the lab, blinking blue LEDs like tiny sentinels.

Mateo clears his throat and steps toward the table, each movement measured as if he is deciding how much of himself to leave on the floor. Mateo: "Speed isn't worthless. But walls aren't a cure. If we rely on structural fixes alone, we ignore the marsh's role, the livelihoods that depend on it. We're trading one failure mode for another."

His words land harder than you expect—public and raw. The room turns at once to him. For a beat, his face is unreadable—then something like regret tightens his mouth. He looks at you in a way that is both apology and distance. Mateo: "Ari, I—I've been pitching hybrid solutions, but I can't be the one to tell people to trust structures when their homes are at stake. I won't be a billboard for half-measures."

You feel a pinch—an intimate ache—sharp and small. The air between you seems to contract for a second, and you understand: Mateo is stepping away to keep his hands clean for the work he thinks will actually protect people. Or he's protecting himself from being blamed when something fails. Either way, his withdrawal is another kind of storm.

Jun leans in. Jun: "We don't want handouts. We want to be able to fish, to plant, to not be fenced out. Resilience bonds sound like debt to me. Who owns those bonds? Who gets to say when 'resilient' is good enough?"

Etta's jaw tightens. Etta: "And what's 'choice' when the alternative is a flooded house? People's 'choice' becomes a market decision unless covenants are binding."

Elio's fingers drum once. Elio: "Binding covenants will add months to permitting. The firm cannot guarantee investors indefinite delays. Our timelines are what enable funding at scale. If the town imposes restraints that jeopardize deployment, legal remedies will follow."

The word 'legal' tastes like copper when it hits the air. An invisible ledger seems to open between you: commitments weighed against timelines, human lives balanced on clauses written by people who rarely get their hands damp with salt.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Read Etta's covenants aloud, emphasizing community language") -> Reaction: "You unfold Etta's pages and let her words fill the chamber. The terms sound intimate—laneways preserved, nursery lands in trust, public fishing rights codified. Heads nod slowly; a murmur of approval rises from the community members present." || Choice B ("Ask Mateo to outline the hybrid technical safeguards") -> Reaction: "You gesture to Mateo. He stands, pulls his notebook from his satchel, and sketches the buoy array on the table. The technical detail grounds the conversation but leaves a hollow where commitments to land use should be. Some listen, others frown."] 

[Scene: Saltmarsh Flats | Late Afternoon — Field Visit]
[Visual: Boardwalk through soggy reeds; flagging tapes flutter at the restoration plots. The sky is a bruised gray. You can see the distant pilings of the Wave Lab against the horizon.]
[Music: Wind-driven strings, a high, thin whistle of urgency]
[Sound: Squelch of boots on wet boards; call of lonely seabirds]

The committee walks the flats because numbers feel thinner without soil under nails. Councilor Rosa follows at a careful distance; Etta moves with a small, unhurried certainty, pointing at coir logs and the outlines of planted eelgrass. Jun stoops and traces his fingers through brackish water; you watch his hand as if it might map the whole decision.

Etta: "This marsh eats waves. It keeps the water from hitting the street with the same force. You cannot see that in a contract line unless you go out and feel it."

You kneel at the edge and press a fingertip into the mud. It offers a soft, yielding resistance—fertile, patient. The smell of peat and salt is a memory that clinics and blueprints cannot recreate. Your camera hangs against your chest, heavy with images you've taken of seedlings actually growing. The sight steadies you.

Elio watches the mud, calculating like someone who reads the world through inputs. He kneels, then reaches for your shoulder in a gesture that is both steadying and possessive. Elio: "We can quantify marsh value. Sensors, models—give us time, and we'll show the returns. But the physical work of barriers requires clear rights to operate."

You want to tell him that not everything useful can be quantified into collateral; you want to say that names and footpaths and weekend fishing rituals are worth as much as tidal coefficient values. Instead you hand him an eelgrass survey and say, quietly, "Here is what we've counted." It is a small bridge—data given by local hands.

Mateo stands a few paces off, watching the water. He puts his hand over his heart like he is checking a beat. He looks like someone trying to anchor himself against a tide. You think of the lab, of the LEDs blinking in sequence like a chorus. You think of his hands soldering wires late into the night.

Jun: "If they kit the pilings and cut the marsh's migration lanes, it won't matter if the buoys work. We'll have fewer crabs, fewer scallops, and fewer boats going out. What's the point of 'protecting' a coast that you've privatized?"

His voice is a raw rope thrown across the flats. Elio replies, voice steady but urgent: Elio: "We build to prevent an emergency. Without infrastructure, there is no future to preserve. There will be negotiation on access—on the form of construction. But the alternative is abandonment."

That word—abandonment—makes the air thinner. You feel the old guilt prick at the base of your skull: if you fail, people leave; if you accept too much, you reshape the town into something else. Your chest tightens in a way that makes it hard to breathe.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Hand Mateo the field notes and ask him to speak plainly about limits") -> Reaction: "Mateo takes the notes, breathes in salt, and says in a voice rougher than before, 'I can design safeguards, but only if the community keeps oversight.' His candor draws a tired applause and a skeptical frown from Elio." || Choice B ("Walk the line with Etta and ask what 'safety' looks like to her") -> Reaction: "Etta shows you a narrow path—an actual boat lane—that must remain open. She speaks of elders who fish at dawn and children who learn to wade. Her description turns abstract policy into faces. A hush falls over the group."] 

[Scene: Etta's Greenhouse (The Nursery) | Dusk]
[Visual: Warm amber light leaking through steamed panes. Plants press against the glass as if listening. The world outside is a washed watercolor of rain.]
[Music: Low piano, melancholic with a mounting tremor]
[Sound: Soft drip of condensation; a far thunderclap]

You come inside and the greenhouse's breath is different—humid, alive, intimate. Etta exhales and it's like a small map opening. Seedlings glow in the amber light. The smell of damp soil and citrus herbs steadies you, like a pulse finding rhythm.

Etta sets a small tray of newly rooted salicornia between the two of you. Etta: "If we lose this, we lose knowledge. Kids won't know where the berries are. We'll have sheltered houses and no stories. Contracts that sound fair on paper will kill small things."

You feel the sentence land with a weight that is more than municipal. Your hands hover over the tray. You think about how many times you've stayed up cataloging the community's ecological memory—photoed, labelled, archived. That archive feels suddenly fragile.

Mateo slips into the doorway and leans against the frame, wet, unresolved. He doesn't enter fully; he watches you both. Mateo: "I can't ask investors to wait for a covenant if my prototypes might keep people from being moved. I also can't watch those prototypes become an excuse for displacement."

Etta's reply is not loud. Etta: "Then help us bind it. Help us make the thing that keeps people here—really keep them here. Not as collateral, as neighbors."

Mateo looks at you like someone wanting permission to be something different. Mateo: "I don't know if I can do both without hurting you, Ari."

The greenhouse is suddenly too small. Your throat tightens; you feel the old tendency—a guilt so familiar it could be an inherited trait—arrange itself into a question. If you push for binding covenants you slow things down and risk investor withdrawal. If you accept baseline contract you get speed but risk social displacement. If you call for audits and delay you buy scrutiny but risk another storm before defenses stand.

You think of the nursery trays, of Jun's hands, of Etta's steady back, of Mateo's retreating silhouette. The decisions feel less legal and more like choosing which people to put in front of a rising tide.

[Sound: A sudden, sharp roll of thunder; lights in the greenhouse flicker faintly]
[Music: Crescendo; strings tighten into a taut, urgent line]

Back in the council chamber, the air is raw. People shuffle—papers, feet, breath. Councilor Rosa glances at the clock. The storm season's calendar chant is in your bones: deadlines, permit windows, funding cycles. Each tick of the clock is a lunge toward consequence.

Elio leans forward, voice thin with urgency now. Elio: "If the town imposes binding covenants that forbid operational decisions for construction, the firm's board will withhold. They will seek to enforce contractual remedies. That could mean a legal fight that slows physical defenses for months."

Etta counters, voice taut. Etta: "And if you sign away access and ownership, residents will be priced out or fenced off from their own shoreline. We lose more than land. We lose history."

Mateo's hands are clenched. Mateo: "There is no perfect choice. But there's a difference between choosing hard things and abdicating in the name of speed."

Jun stands suddenly. Jun: "So what do we do? We need words that mean something. We need teeth. We need the town to be able to fight back if someone tries to privatize our shore."

Councilor Rosa's expression is a map of compromise, with lines drawn and rubbings out. Councilor Rosa: "We can try to draft a middle path—some protective covenants, some operational allowances. But this room is fractured. Elio, can the firm accept conditional covenants? Mateo—can we rely on hybrid tech without full buy-in from investors?"

Elio's reply is slow, measured, the kind of logic that tries to compress urgency into acceptable risk: Elio: "We can accept limited covenants if they do not impede construction timelines. But I must be clear—absolute restrictions will threaten capital. This is a negotiation, not an ultimatum."

You feel the edge of panic now—the VeryHigh current that lifts everything toward a cliff. The room's temperature seems to climb as if the storm has come indoors. Your chest hurts with the number of people relying on you to put their words into clauses that will be read by judges, funders, and future grandchildren.

Your internal voice is a raw wire: You are supposed to hold the line for the town. To be honest about trade-offs. To shepherd the opposition into workable language. To keep Mateo from walking away entirely. To stop Elio from bulldozing the social fabric. To keep Etta's seedlings from becoming tokens in a corporate portfolio.

You tap a pen, feel the click like a detonator. You slide a sheaf of paper forward—your attempt at a draft that tries to thread the needle: limited-binding covenants with triggers for rapid, community-led oversight; an oversight board that includes elders, fishers, and engineers; explicit protections for nursery lands and public access; clauses for audit and sunset reviews.

Councilor Rosa rubs her forehead. Elio looks at the text with thinly veiled impatience. Etta reads it slowly, lips moving. Mateo's jaw tightens. Jun's hand is a fist pressing into the table.

Etta: "This is something. It still allows for overreach if the firm decides to define 'emergency' too broadly."

Elio: "Those definitions can be negotiated. But we cannot have open-ended vetoes that stop construction in a crisis."

Mateo: "And you can't let 'negotiation' be a loophole that eats the sunset clauses."

A charged silence hangs—heavy, electric. Rain drums harder against the council window like someone trying to beat the building open.

You realize the choice will not be neutral. Your muscles pulse with an almost physical ache. The town's future is a knife-edge and the wind is already howling.

[Music: All instruments clash into a single, urgent chord; high percussion simulates a rolling storm]
[Sound: One prolonged thunderclap; the lights in the chamber flicker again]

[DECISION POINT]
has_choice: true
description: "How to finalize the town’s terms with the firm?"
options:
1) "Negotiate strict covenants protecting community lands and public access." -> TARGET chapter_id: 12
2) "Accept the company's baseline contract to ensure swift construction." -> TARGET chapter_id: 14
3) "Launch a public campaign demanding audits and transparency, delaying the contract." -> TARGET chapter_id: 15