[Scene: Municipal Hall | Late Afternoon — After the Vote]
[Visual: Wide shot of the council chamber; rain streaks the tall windows, the plaza's banners blurred into watercolor beyond. Council papers lie in a wet arc on the table.]
[Music: Low, urgent strings; a metallic underbeat like distant surf]
[Sound: Rain as static; an anxious murmur from the corridor outside]

You sit at the long table with the covenant in front of you—the clauses Etta insisted on, the language Jun fought for, the public-access guarantees Councilor Rosa made them reword twice. Your fingers leave a salt-smeared trail across the paper. Victory tastes thin: legal language can protect land, but it cannot stop water.

Etta leans forward, voice small but sharp. "We carved out the littoral rights. We locked in the strips for community gardens and the nursery access. We made 'public' mean public."

You want to let yourself breathe. Instead the room holds its breath with you.

Elio's eyes are narrowed in that way that used to read as precision and now feels like a knife. "Covenants are... constraining," he says. He does not look angry; he looks like someone recalculating. "Our timeline is optimistic. If these protections prevent us from acting in a true emergency, the legal exposure is significant."

Mateo's jaw tightens. He sets his notebook on the table with an audible slap. "You can't threaten us with constructs of 'emergency' and then excuse inaction with them," he says. His hands twitch, revealing the careful engineer beneath the placid face.

Jun's laugh is a brittle snap. "Threaten with lawsuits all you want. We remember whose houses are on the line."

You feel the room shrink to the sounds of plates and paper: the rustle of coats, the tick of a wall clock that doesn't know tides. You think of the marshline you measured last week—how the eelgrass kept a patch of shore from sliding entirely into the channel. You think of Etta's seedlings, their tiny roots clinging to damp soil like stubborn promises.

Elio's voice lowers, almost conciliatory. "This will slow construction. Litigation will be expensive for everyone. Time is not an ally here."

You're tired of "time." You are tired of delays. But you are also tired of the idea that safety must come at the cost of people's homes being walled off behind private access.

You speak because silence feels like consent. "We accept the delay," you say. Your voice is steadier than you feel. "We protect public access, community lands, and the nursery. If the firm wants to act, it will do so under our terms."

Elio's expression is unreadable—complex, a calculus you cannot unpick. "Then prepare for court," he says. "We'll see who's right."

[Visual: Close-up on your hands, fingers flexing around the dented metal of your camera strap]
[Narration]
You know what this means. The firm has resources. Legal battles will bleed money and time. The covenant is a moral victory, a shield for the future—but not a panacea for the next storm. The air in your chest tightens as if the wind outside has already put its hand around your throat.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Draft a public statement emphasizing the covenant's protections") -> Reaction: "You dictate a short, raw paragraph that echoes Etta's words; Mara will run it tonight. The town will hear that you've chosen long-term stewardship over immediate speed." || Choice B ("Push for an emergency mediation session to avoid litigation") -> Reaction: "You ask Councilor Rosa to convene mediators. Elio agrees with a thin smile. The clock moves forward—but now with lawyers in it."]

Etta's hand finds the edge of the table. She squeezes as if pinching seaworthy courage from the wood. "We did the right thing," she says. "But right isn't always easy."

Mateo meets your gaze for a long breath. The sea-glass in your eyes meets his warm brown and you locate, briefly, the simple map of where you have stood together. "We have to be ready," he says. "For the audit. For the pushback. For whatever they throw at us."

The room brims with low-fi preparations: action lists, town volunteers, a shared exhaustion that feels like the weather. You leave with a bundle of tasks and a hollow hope knotted behind your ribs.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: String motif tightens, hurry in percussion]
[Sound: The rain intensifies to a drum]

[Scene: Saltmarsh Flats | Dawn — Weeks Later]
[Visual: Gray dawn over reeds bowed low by wind; flags marking restoration plots whip horizontally]
[Music: Rapid, thin triangle notes slicing through deep drums]
[Sound: Wave slap against sagging coir logs; gull cries shredded by wind]

You are ankle-deep in mud in boots that have seen better tides. The covenants slowed the construction. They bought legal safeguards and the time to organize community stewardship. They also bought you nothing against the weather set to arrive.

The warning came late last night—models tightened, the storm's eye feeding into a faster surge. People move like ghosts along the marsh edge, hauling sandbags, salvaging family photos, dragging battered furniture up to higher floors. The town smells like wet plaster and diesel and something metallic—alarm, maybe.

Jun crouches beside you, straps a soaked tarp over a neighbor's shed roof. "We warned them to move their cleats higher," he says. He looks none of the better for the warning.

You load Etta's boxes into a waiting truck: damp seed packets wrapped in a plastic grocery bag, a battered trowel, a ledger swollen with water but stitched with care. Your hands know the work by memory—lift, tie, secure. Every motion is a small declaration that you will not let everything fall into the sea without a fight.

Mateo arrives with a bundle of fragile instruments from the lab—sensors wrapped in sealed foam. His face is striped where rain has lashed it. He doesn't smile. "We could try to deploy the buoy array further out," he says, breathless, "but without clear windows from the firm we can't scale fast enough."

"Without their heavy liners in place?" you say. "We might make a dent, but a storm like this..." Your voice cracks on the rest.

The sky answers by opening wider.

[Music: Percussion explodes; high strings scream; tempo accelerates]
[Sound: A sustained, ear-bending wail—like a siren and a whale crying at once]

People shout. You run. The surge hits the flats before noon like a hand slamming a book closed: water folds over the coir logs, pits of brown tide eating at foundations. You see the white sheet of stairwells filling, the way stair risers become small islands, the way people's eyes go hollow with calculation—what to save, what to leave.

Jun yells someone's name and you move with him toward a porch with a light still on. Inside, an elderly couple sits on milk crates, faces sea-gray. One suitcase is zipped, another is open—half a life of photos at risk of salt.

Mateo's voice behind you calls your name. "There's a trailer on Fisher's Lane—kids—" His sentence breaks into the sound of breaking wood.

You choose without thinking: you go for the kids. The surf is sudden at waist height, cold enough to steal your breath. Fingers find small, frightened bodies and drag them past a threshold. You hand them over to a neighbor who is a human wall of blankets.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Stay to pry up the nursery's bench and rescue more seedlings") -> Reaction: "You heave at the sodden bench with Mateo. Roots come free with a sound like small bones. You cradled trays against your chest as the water tries to take them; some survive, many do not." || Choice B ("Follow Jun to pull the elderly couple from their porch") -> Reaction: "You help lift the couple. They are lighter than you expect, like ships of a smaller draft. You carry them to higher ground, while the nursery at the greenhouse takes a harder hit."]

The surge takes houses like pages torn from a book. You watch with a clinician's attention and a child's helplessness as entire front rooms become floating oceans of furniture and framed diplomas. People wade, dragging what they can, crying in that brittle, shuddering way that will not let them sleep for nights.

When the water finally recedes, it leaves a landscape of mud and broken vows. Whole doorframes stand like graves. Several families—Jun's cousin among them—pack into trucks the next morning and leave for inland shelters, decisions made with faces full of salt and something like resignation.

You stand on a street turned riverbed and feel the covenant like a paper shield in your hands: it mattered, the lawyers will say later. It bought land access and community control. But the legal timetable was not a wall against tonight.

[Scene: Etta's Greenhouse (The Nursery) | Evening — Days After the Surge]
[Visual: The glass of the greenhouse streaked with salt and mud; inside, lamps glow amber over a tangle of surviving green]
[Music: Sparse piano notes, low and brittle]
[Sound: Drips from broken gutters; the soft rasp of soil being sifted]

Etta crouches over a tray of seedlings, hands as gentle as wrung cloth. She hums a thin, cracked tune and sets a stem upright like setting a small flag.

"Half of it is gone," she says without looking up. Her eyes are rimmed in red. "But the roots we saved—there's enough to start again."

You feel the weight of all the people who did not have enough to start again. The nursery is a stubborn, breathing thing—alive, hurting, whole in a way that matters and not nearly enough to undo what was lost.

Mateo stands by the doorway with his satchel. He holds a folder in his hands: proposals, budgets, the small blueprints of things he thought could bridge the gap. He speaks slowly, each word deliberate. "I've been offered a grant," he says. "A small network—independent. They want projects that move faster than corporate timelines, that can be deployed without contracts like these."

Your throat tightens because you already know the shape of the sentence that follows. "You're going?" you ask, though the answer hangs visible between you like low cloud.

He nods. "I can help Tidebridge from there," he says. "But I can't fight in court and build prototypes and keep the nursery afloat all at once. I have to go where I can actually move the devices without being dragged into legal delays."

You want to argue for him to stay, for both of you to stay in the tangle of mud and policy and seedlings. You want to tell him that the covenants were meant to be game-changers, that this is the hill you chose together. But the storm taught you something else—principle sometimes costs people the chance to keep working where they love.

He steps closer, and for a heartbeat his hand reaches for yours. You do not know if this is comfort or goodbye. He presses something into your palm: a chipped sensor tag, salt-streaked and warm from his pocket.

"I'm not leaving you," he says. The voice is honest and thin. "I need to keep my head above water in a different way."

You let him go.

[Dialogue — Multiple turns]
Etta: "He was always going to be restless. You know that."
You: "I know. That doesn't make it easier."
Etta: (tapping the seed tray) "You did right by the land. You did right by the covenant. But 'right' takes time, and time takes people."
You: "Is it worth it if people lose their homes while we defend the land?"
Etta: (eyes heavy) "What we save will be for those who stay and those who come back. That's not nothing."

A soft beep from a small radio on the workbench pulls both your heads up: a legal bulletin, terse and unrelenting. Elio's firm has filed for an injunction over the interpreted emergency clause; they cite "critical infrastructure timelines" and demand expedited construction. The headline scrolls like a blade.

Mateo looks at you, then out at the mud-dark horizon where the town's outlines still drip. "They're going to sue," he says. "They think they'll win."

You taste metal at the back of your mouth—exhaustion blended with a fierce, animal anger. The covenant protected the community from privatization and secured public access. It also provoked a machine big enough to grind people's patience down to filings, motions, and bank statements.

[Music: A single, loud, sustained note breaks into a dissonant cluster]
[Sound: A chair scraping; someone sobs quietly in a corner; thunder mutters far away]

Etta presses a hand to your shoulder. "We keep going," she says. "We teach the seedlings to take root. We teach the town to hold on."

You stare at the seedlings, at Mateo's departing silhouette, at the ledger with soaked ink. The road ahead is full of courtrooms, of media cycles, of rebuilding funds that will not stretch for everyone. Families leave. Faces that once flared in the plaza are quieter now; some are gone.

You feel, with cold clarity, the balance of your choice: the covenant was a moral stand that will protect the town's soul, but it did not prevent the sea from taking what it took. The legal protections are seeds for the future—seeds that must be nurtured in the hard, muddy present.

[Visual: Close-up of your face; rain-streaked and resolved]
[Narration]
You think of the many small reckonings this season has taught you: that love can be a strategy and a liability, that community can be a shelter and a slow burn, that principle can cost people their roofs. You count the losses—friends who left, houses that sank, the lit ledger of lawsuits—and you count the preserved things with the same careful hand: the nursery's access, the public shorelines, a handful of restored marsh plots that will keep growing.

You are exhausted. You are furious. You are grieving. You are not finished.

[Music: The strings settle into a low, reverberant chord—an ache more than a resolution]
[Sound: A distant ship horn, low and human]

Etta straightens, wiping soil from her palms. "We carry it forward," she says. "One bed at a time. One hearing at a time. One neighbor at a time."

You nod. You will carry it forward. The covenant stands like a dented shield; it will not stop every storm, but it will matter in the long arc. People will come and go. The town will change shape and memory, patched like a quilt that has had pieces removed and sewn anew.

You step outside into dusk. The flats are quiet now, scarred and honest. Mateo's truck is a dot on the road, moving inland. You watch until it disappears.

[Visual: Long shot of the harbor; lights flicker, some gone, some stubbornly on]
[Music: Piano note held then faded; a low, enduring hum persists]

You do not feel triumphant. You feel the raw, ragged contours of survival—small victories braided with real loss. You imagine the covenant holding through appeals and countersuits, that somewhere down a tortured timeline children will run along a public shore you helped guard. That image is thin and bright; it is not enough to fill the emptiness, but it is something to plant.

You breathe in the sea-scented air, heavy with wet peat and possibility. You lift your camera, thumbing it on. The glass is smeared, but the image forms anyway: a greenhouse lamp through a fogged pane, Etta's hands, empty porches, a lone buoy bobbing like a promise.

You lower the camera. There is a long road of hearings, rebuilding, and quiet stewardship ahead. You will walk it, whether anyone recognizes you for it or not.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Low, mournful chord lingers and fades]
[Sound: Final rain drop]

[ENDING]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}