[Scene: Council Chambers / Redevelopment Pavilion | Mid-Morning]
[Visual: The glass doors sigh closed behind you. Polished concrete reflects a wash of pale daylight; a massive projection hangs at the front—one side a glossy rendering of stilted towers and a seawall, the other a stitched map of the Brineheart corridor marked with phases and piloted reefs.]
[Sound: Low murmur of the room—neighbors trading breath, an investor's phone buzzing, the soft click of a laser pointer. Rain drums a polite rhythm on the overhang outside.]
[Music: A restrained piano motif spins upward; hopeful, patient, like breath taken before speaking.]

You feel the market still on your sleeves: the smell of smoked fish, the dust of seed-stuffed fingers, Marta's crate in your arms. That ordinary residue anchors you—their hands are the material reality of the plan you're about to give voice to. You tuck the notebook into your jacket where the leather is worn thin; the underlined line—"We braided the shore; let's braid it better."—sleeps beneath your palm like ballast.

The chamber seats a cross-section of the town: Jun with his tablet and a stack of printed confidence intervals; Marta threaded into the front row like a seam of color; Old Man Rafi with a cap full of pins and an open, appraising face. Eli stands near the back, arms crossed around a tray that still smells faintly of warm bread from the Helix. Lina sits at the dais beside Caden; she has that look that labors between fatigue and resolve. Investors cluster under the bright lights—slick coats and ready smiles.

You inhale. The city's odor—ozone from the building's filters, a trace of the harbor, and the wet leather of your notebook—fills the small lattice of your attention. Momentum hums in the room, not triumphal but tenderly insistive. This is what community feels like when it's both fragile and moving.

[Visual: Jun stands, clearing his throat. His tablet projects a crisp graph: phased resilience metrics for living shorelines. Arrows show sediment retention, biodiversity indices, and the lagged economic model that ties job creation to small-scale restoration efforts.]
[Sound: A hush leans forward; the projection's light etches Jun's glasses. A faint scraping as someone shifts a chair.]

Jun Park: "The model shows—if we phase living-shoreline interventions across the corridor, starting with pilot reefs and marsh transplants—we stabilize storm-energy dissipation within two seasonal cycles and create direct, recurring revenue through co-op managed services. The error bars tighten as community labor inputs increase."

You feel your mouth shape the opening you practiced a hundred times on the boardwalk. It isn't a speech; it's a reaching-out of work—simple, rooted steps. You step forward and let the notebook be what it is: a small repository of place and demand.

Aria Solen: "We didn't come here with a blueprint meant to impress a portfolio. We came here with hands, patterns, schedules—the kind of work Old Pier Market knows how to do. Jun's numbers are the backbone. What I want to show is how the living-shoreline isn't a single object but a series of commitments people can hold to."

Caden leans back, suit immaculate even under the fluorescent glare. He taps the remote twice; the projection flips to his renderings—sleek seawalls, ordered terraces of housing, a marina that glows with investor logos.

Caden: "And I respect the sentiment, Aria, truly. But we must look at scale. When a storm comes with the magnitude the models warn of, people want solidity. My plan guarantees immediate protection and attracts the capital we need to rebuild swiftly. It's an infrastructure solution; it's measurable, and it's fundable."

There's a certain cadence to his language—measured, persuasive—a professional who has learned that certainty comforts committees. You notice the investors' faces brighten at the word "guarantee." Lina's fingers hover over a folder; she looks between Caden and you like someone balancing a fragile ledger.

Lina Voss: "Caden makes a compelling case for speed. Aria, Jun—if we combine elements, can we present a phased package investors can underwrite? I want options that both protect property and allow community stewardship."

Your chest tightens for half a breath. Compromise has a currency of its own: trust. Negotiating too early might fracture the fragile faith you've built with co-ops. Yet standing rigid risks marginalizing your work under polished promises. You think of Eli's hands sewing seed envelopes the night before, of Marta's laugh when someone suggested a seawall that would cut off the market current.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Open with Jun's data—let the numbers set the tone") -> Reaction: "You nod to Jun and let the graphs speak. The room leans into figures; faces register a slow, practical comprehension." || Choice B ("Begin with the story—the lived experience of the market and the Helix") -> Reaction: "You tell a short, vivid scene: a child pressing a seed packet into a palm. Conversation shifts—there's a human gravitational tug toward the visible work." || Choice C ("Call for a demonstration—ask to visit a pilot site before votes") -> Reaction: "You suggest a field visit, a pragmatic pause. The suggestion carries weight; it reframes urgency into a sequence of achievable steps."] 

The choice hangs and resolves without dictating your future; you feel each reaction ripple through the room. You chose. The energy settles on a new axis.

Marta leans forward first, voice like a rope pulling the room nearer.

Marta Quin: "Look, I'm not an engineer. I plant. I fix nets. But I've seen what happens when you put people's hands in a project. It lasts. You can sell renderings, but hands make a thing that grows roots."

Eli steps up beside you, not to speak for you but to bolster the picture with lived craft.

Eli Navarro: "The Helix started as a joke—an old barge, some compost, and a stubborn idea. Now it's feed for half the market. We aren't asking for sentiment. We're asking—let us prove this at scale. Give us space to show the economics with Jun's numbers and watch jobs grow."

There is a hush then—like the intake before a tide—then Caden clears his throat.

Caden: "I'm sympathetic to local pilot projects. But the risk of scale failure is real. If a pilot fails, the public loses confidence. Investors pull. We need a project that demonstrably protects property values now. A hybrid approach dilutes that message."

Jun steps up with a tablet in both hands, voice steady but edged with urgency.

Jun Park: "The models indicate that decentralized work reduces systemic failure probability. It's not a gamble if we phase intelligently—pilot, monitor, scale—and we keep contingency allocations. The social capital of co-op governance reduces maintenance costs and increases adaptive capacity. It's statistically defensible."

You can see Lina weighing junctures in the air—public opinion, bins of data, a mayoral calendar. Old Man Rafi's hands twist his cap's brim; his eyes are unreadable, as they must be for you to honor all possible pasts.

Old Man Rafi: "When the sea changes, you mend the line, not tear out the village. There's knowledge here that towers don't buy. They move us all."

The investors murmur among themselves; one leans toward Caden and murmurs to a colleague. Money is a sound you know well: discreet, persuasive, but not wholehearted.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Point to the co-op economics—emphasize livelihoods") -> Reaction: "You name the jobs—greenhouse shifts, marsh tending, tidal guides. Faces in the room follow the tangible." || Choice B ("Highlight the adaptive metrics—stress Jun's statistical robustness") -> Reaction: "You reference the margin-of-error improvements. The council's analysts lean in; the argument feels procedural and solid." ]

Lina looks at you, then at the assembled room, and the chambers quiets as if the building itself is holding its breath.

Lina Voss: "There are real consequences either way. I want a solution that doesn't leave the co-ops behind but also doesn't postpone necessary protective measures. Aria—what do you ask of this body today?"

You feel the old scar behind your ribs, the one that tightens whenever you hear the words "last chance" or "we can't afford to..." It's not only about the corridor; it's about a promise you made to a sibling's memory—that work could be done differently. You also feel the presence of others—Eli's steady warmth, Marta's blunt love, Jun's quiet insistence. Hope is not naive tonight; it's practiced.

Aria Solen: "I ask for two things. One: permission to pilot the living-shoreline in two priority sectors—small, transparent phases with independent monitoring and public reporting. Two: a governance framework that binds investor contributions to co-op maintenance contracts so the people who will live with this every tide have a seat at the table."

Caden's expression narrows, then smooths into the patient look of someone who will try to fold that request into his language.

Caden: "Binding governance is a legal challenge, Aria. Investors don't like open-ended obligations. They want predictability."

You can see Lina's jaw as she considers legal scaffolding. You can see Jun's posture relax ever so slightly—he likes constraints he can model.

Jun Park: "We can design governance triggers—performance-based disbursements tied to ecological metrics. It satisfies investor concerns and preserves community oversight."

An investor speaks up, voice careful.

Investor: "Performance tranches are interesting—you'd need guarantees, escrow mechanisms, and clear liability assignments. Who bears maintenance costs if a storm breaches a pilot?"

Your reply comes unbidden; it's a small, precise articulation born from months of talk and soil.

Aria Solen: "The co-ops carry stewardship obligations tied to maintenance leases. We can underwrite early-season contingencies with a municipal buffer and a performance escrow. But the real guarantee is the town's workforce. When people have a stake, they maintain better than any contracted crew."

You sense a small pivot in the room. The idea that community labor isn't just sentimental but economically superior lands like a soft stone. It doesn't solve everything, but it reframes the problem.

Marta claps, almost involuntarily.

Marta Quin: "That's the thing—if you pay people to love the place, they will keep it. It's not poetry—it's payroll."

Eli gives you a look—quick, approving. He reaches out and squeezes your shoulder once, a gesture you accept with a steadiness you didn't give yourself a moment ago.

There's a rustle; wheels begin to turn. Lina turns her pen over. Across the aisle, Caden gathers his arguments and prepares to press them harder. The choice you make now will be felt in more than policy; it will set the tone for how trust is honored in this town.

[Sound: The projector hums. Rain lightens. The piano motif rises, hopeful.]

You look at the faces you know—not just allies, but those whose support you must earn. You notice the small details: Jun's hand on the tablet, Marta's nails stained with paint, Eli's knuckles faintly salt-marked, Rafi's cap shadowing a look that could mean blessing or warning. Everything reduces to one edge of a decision.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call for a community vote now—put power directly in people's hands") -> Reaction: "You propose immediate local ratification. The room sparks—some nod in fierce approval, others whiten at the informality, but the energy is unmistakably electric." || Choice B ("Ask for a phased approval with legal frameworks to be negotiated—buy the time to build consensus") -> Reaction: "You request a conditional endorsement with a timeline. The room breathes; it feels pragmatic, deliberate—hope baked into procedure." || Choice C ("Challenge Caden publicly on his cost-benefit assumptions—force a technical debate") -> Reaction: "You push him to the numbers, exposing assumptions. It sharpens the meeting into an arena of accountability; the tension rises, but so does clarity." ]

The clock on the wall ticks toward a decision—literal time now tracking the moral one. Your heart thuds a rhythm that matches the hopeful ascent of the music. This is a rising moment: the town is assembled; the data exists; your people have shown up. The possible futures press at the doors—some immediate and communal, some institutional and scaled, some risky and revealing.

Lina folds her hands and looks at you, her expression a map of responsibility.

Lina Voss: "This council recognizes the urgency. We can move in multiple directions, but we need a statement. Aria—this room wants to know: how will you, as the project's lead, proceed publicly and politically? Present your position."

Silence gathers like a netcast tide. All eyes—neighbors, investors, friends, skeptics—find you. The room is ripe, expectant, and you can feel the arc of possibility leaning toward you.

[Music: The piano motif holds, a single sustained chord of potential.]

You breathe and your answer narrows into three clear paths that will define not just policy but the tenor of your relationships and the town's future.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "At the council's moment of decision, I must decide how to proceed publicly and politically.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Stand with the co-ops—refuse to compromise and mobilize community action.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Negotiate a conditional compromise with Lina/Caden—seek hybrid governance.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Leak the redevelopment's draft data anonymously to the press to force transparency.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}