[Scene: Skyfarm Terraces | Dusk]
[Visual: Tiered rooftop farms bathed in a warm, golden dusk; drip lines glisten; a plank warmed by the day's sun creaks underfoot.]
[Music: Low, hopeful strings with a soft percussion—steady, like distant tide]
[Sound: Gulls calling; the faint hum of distant machinery; soft murmur of gathered voices]

You step out onto the highest terrace and let the light find the loose knot at the nape of your neck. The ribbon at your hair is frayed where you often twist it around your finger; tonight the knot has loosened strands that catch the light like seaweed. Your jacket smells faintly of compost and salt; the sleeves itch where they've been patched, a small badge of all the hands you've had on this work.

The crowd is smaller than the market would be, but their attention holds a weight you can feel in your spine. Benches and crates form a rough semicircle facing the terrace's edge, where the city's channels glitter below. Old Man Toma sits at the front, cloak a patchwork of memories. Ibe leans on a tool-scarred post, a cheerful knot of tension in his shoulders. Elias is to your left, hands folded over his tablet, the seedbank tin a soft clink at his hip.

You still feel the echo of the lab—Elias's thumb on the back of your hand, the tidy lines of simulations. That memory hums under everything like a steady current: possibility, urgency, the promise of scale.

[Visual: A sleek coat cuts through the terrace's golden haze; Rin Voss descends the steps with measured pace.]
[Sound: The talking hushes; the terrace seems to draw the air in]
[Music: A single piano note rings, then the strings swell brighter]

Rin Voss: "Good evening, everyone. Thank you for coming to the Skyfarm." (Her voice is warm enough to invite agreement; the words are a practiced tide.) "Marenport doesn't have the luxury of hesitation. The TideGrid can be deployed modularly and quickly. With a public-private compact, we can stabilize channels, protect low-lying neighborhoods, and—" (she pauses, and the pause is a small engineering miracle) "—save lives this season."

She spreads her hands; the coat's cut catches the last light so her silhouette looks like a plan drawn in metal.

You notice the way half the council leans toward her—catching on to the cadence, to the certainty. The rest of the terrace holds its breath.

Elias: "Rin—" (sharp, not unkind) "It's promising. But 'public-private compact' doesn't have to mean closed-source. If we keep TideGrid's schematics open and modular, communities can adapt modules locally. Transparency will prevent the very control you're—" (he stops, searching for the word that won't flame the room)

Rin Voss: (smiles with absolute control) "Transparency is ideal. Time is not. We can open portions later. Right now, we need implementation."

Elias: "We open it now. We make it auditable. We build trust by design—"

Serena Qiu: "And debug it. You can't put people behind the system before the critical failure points are known." (She folds her arms, the diagnostic wristband catching dusk.) "My team found a mode where feedback loops could cause pressure differentials if not checked under unusual thermal loads. We need staged pilots."

Rin Voss: (tilting her head) "Staged pilots cost lives in fast-moving surges. The city can't afford a season of experiments."

You feel the terrace tilt in conversation, the voices a tricky arch reminding you of your own tug between scale and soil.

Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye: (barks a laugh that is both humor and warning) "So you've built a machine to tell us how high to plant our beans, eh? Listen—" (he steps forward, palms open as if laying a plank) "Machines are fine. But when the machine decides who gets water first, does it ask the fishermen about tides? Does it ask Toma's mother where her stoop used to be?"

Old Man Toma: (voice thin but steady) "The docks remember. The sea remembers. We cannot give the sea to a ledger and call it honoring the past." (He touches the edge of the terrace as if feeling a memory in the timber.)

You feel each of their words like light through leaves—half shadow, half warmth. The lab's clean hum and Ibe's splintered wood talk to different truths. You want both: the machinery that saves and the memory that roots people to place.

Your chest tightens; there's pressure behind your ribs that tastes like the sea. Elias looks at you then—close enough that you can see the gold flecks in his eyes when the sun hits them. There's an impatient kindness in his gaze: a question folded into a dare. Will you leap with him?

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Press your thumb to the copper locket at your throat") -> Reaction: "You feel the thin photograph inside—coastline, sun-bleached—like a compass. Your fingers steady, the urge to preserve memory sharpening into resolve." || Choice B ("Rub the patched elbow of your jacket") -> Reaction: "The cloth is rough and familiar. The motion is child's, grounding; it reminds you of hands callused and patient, the slow work of repair rather than overhaul."]

Rin Voss: (softly) "Maia, you've kept a hand in the neighborhood longer than most. You know real loss. We need competent partners who can move. Align with TideGrid—get access, funding, hardware. You can protect what matters from the inside."

You feel the offer like a tide pooling at your feet. Protect from the inside. The words are honeyed and precise.

You want to ask: And if 'inside' becomes the only way? But you can see the relief in faces—relief that might mean fewer flooded kitchens this winter. Part of you imagines roofs staying rooted, kettles kept half-full instead of cold. The images come quick and clean: a child splashing in a protected courtyard, a rooftop terrace that doesn't slip into brown water.

Elias: "If we do this, we negotiate code access, oversight boards with community representatives, and a public audit. We can't just hand over control—" (he glances at you) "—I know you won't let me."

You: "You think I would let you sell us out." (Your voice comes out steadier than you feel.) "It's not selling out to want fewer deaths. It's not betrayal to want to stop a wave."

Elias: "I know. And I know what it looks like when centralized systems decide what's efficient and who counts as essential. That's why—" (he swallows) "—that's why I want open-source modularity, and why I asked you to help."

The mayor's deputy, a younger woman with document folders, shifts forward; the dusk sharpens the crease at her brow.

Mayor's Deputy: "The council needs a preliminary stance by tonight. We can vote to authorize pilot deployment, or delay for community-driven projects. We don't have time to linger in perfect solutions."

You sense the political clock like a low drumbeat. Decisions made in that drumbeat will echo through people’s winters.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Let Elias take the floor and outline the open-source proposal") -> Reaction: "Elias steps forward, voice steady; he lays out modular tiers and audit workstreams. You watch the logic soften faces; people nod at charts, at the promise of both safety and shared code." || Choice B ("Stand and ask for a minute of listening from the crowd—two neighbors to speak uninterrupted") -> Reaction: "You stand, the plank creaking. You point to Toma and Ibe. For a breath, the room's agenda softens and memory has the floor; the stories slow the momentum like a hand on a wheel." || Choice C ("Quietly urge Serena to present debugging timelines") -> Reaction: "Serena exhales and projects a small, practical timeline. Her clarity tempers Rin's urgency with technical caution; the buzz in the terrace becomes more measured, data finding rhythm among rhetoric."]

Serena Qiu: (after you nudge her) "If we're going to trust people to live under this system, we need known failure modes and community-led fallback protocols. Open-source helps—but audits and staged pilots matter." (She meets Rin's gaze.) "You'll need to accept delays anymore. People can't be test subjects."

Rin Voss: "Delays cost lives. Audits and openness can be negotiated on a parallel track."

Ibe: (laughing, but not unkind) "Negotiated on a parallel track—you mean, 'We'll give you the plank once the tide takes it.'"

You: "What if the plank is designed in a way that any neighborhood can bolt on its own pumps—modular by default, with community seats on the oversight council? What if we insist on local deployment teams trained in maintenance and audits, funded from the beginning?"

The murmurs shift. You sense a subtle energy change: instead of two poles—'deploy now' and 'never'—a braided possibility is forming. It's fragile, a reed in the mouth of a gathering storm, but it bends toward light.

Rin Voss: (a long look; for a moment something like calculation and respect flickers across her face) "We can consider modular handoffs. But we need a timeline. I will not promise indefinite concessions without proof of efficacy."

Mayor's Deputy: (firm) "We need your position, Maia. As a representative of the Resilience Collective, your stance will guide funding allocations tonight."

Your pulse quickens. The terrace hushes like the breath before a tidecrest. You feel the weight of the neighborhood in the locket at your throat, in Ibe's knot of hands, in Toma's quiet stare. You feel the reach of Elias's hope, deft and immediate. You feel Rin's promise of scale, sharp and dangerous and possibly true.

All of these futures shine in the soft dusk. Each holds life. Each demands sacrifice.

[Visual: The sun slips lower, gilding the terrace rails; gulls cry, and the distant hum grows like a hopeful engine.]
[Music: Strings lift into an ascending motif—warm, forward-pushing]

You realize, with the clarity that sometimes comes before a decision, that any path you choose now will not be only practical policy. It will be a promise you make to people you love and to strangers you will never meet. It will define what 'we' means here—who gets to say how water moves, how labor is valued, how memory is kept.

Elias reaches for your hand again, words ready on his lips; Ibe's jaw tightens in patient expectation; Toma's fingers tap a rhythm you know by heart. The mayor's deputy watches, document edges waiting for the ink that will make the night move.

You inhale, the air tasting of salt and warm soil, and the decision sits like a pebble in your palm—solid, cool, and necessary.

[Decision Point]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Should I align my efforts with a large-scale TideGrid effort, focus purely on community resilience, or try to negotiate a hybrid approach with oversight?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Join Elias and accelerate TideGrid deployment",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Expand grassroots resilience—refuse TideGrid",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Broker a hybrid—demand community oversight",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}