[Scene: Skyfarm Terraces | Morning]
[Visual: Tiered rooftop gardens glazed with early mist; drip lines bead like stringed light. Hands are busy—soil under nails, patched canvas awnings fluttering.]
[Music: Low, melancholic strings with a single ascending violin line]
[Sound: Distant pumps humming in steady rhythm; gulls call and retreat]

You start the morning by walking the terraces, palms pressed into damp earth to feel whether the newest bed will hold. The seedlings quake faintly in your fingers, green and stubborn against salt and wind. Around you, people move with the quiet efficiency of those who have learned to make celebration out of survival: laughter as a metronome to the work, a child's small hand tugging a wheelbarrow, Ibe's broad silhouette bending to mend a trough.

You can still taste the copper of the locket at your throat when you inhale — not literally, but as a small, steady pressure of memory. It keeps you tethered to the coastline you're trying to keep in people's lives.

Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye: "Look at this, Maia. Old grafting trick from my aunt—keeps the roots from drawing the salt right up. You taught me to stop trying to save every leaf and start saving the roots."

You smile without thinking; it's reflexive and warm, and for a breath the city feels held together by hands. You tell him the seedbed will hold through the next high tide if the pumps keep their rhythm.

Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye: (grinning) "It's not the TideGrid, but it's honest work. Honest work stitches up more holes than sentiment."  
Maia Soler: "We stitch what we can, Ibe. That's the point."

He straightens, sanding a notch on a plank with a practiced forearm. Around you, the terraces hum—solar panels blinking gently, siphons siphoning, a chorus of small machines and human lungs. The market below sends up a faint melody of bartering voices and a kettle's whistle.

But the hum that belongs to the larger world is still there, farther than you would like: a mechanical pitch from the research barges, a clarion of announcements on municipal channels. It sits at the edge of the terrace like weather you can smell before you feel the rain.

Old Man Toma shuffles up with two paper cups, the cloak around his shoulders catching dew. He sets one in your hands with a small, crooked smile that says he expects you to keep working whether storms come or not.

Old Man Toma: "We planted, and it grew. You and the children — they will remember how hands fed them. That matters."

You nod, tasting the bitter warmth of the tea. It steadies you. For the hour, the city seems to tilt back toward the life you make with neighbors rather than the life that might be imposed from above.

[Visual: Close-up on your hands, dirt at the nails, a thread of salt along the cuff of your field jacket]
[Music: The single violin line slows, then flutters]

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Walk the southern perimeter—check the sea walls") -> Reaction: "You tighten your jacket at the collar and head down the service ladder to the perimeter, boots sloshing in shallow runoff. The sea smells closer there—iron and wet wood—and the pilings are feathered with new erosion that makes your stomach drop. You note the weak spots with a meticulous, aching clarity." || Choice B ("Stay and organize the harvest—call a meeting") -> Reaction: "You shout a plan across the terrace, assigning rows and rationing the newest seedlings. Voices converge; hands reach; for a few small hours the work folds the people together into something that looks like protection. It feels necessary and, for the moment, enough."]

The choice you make is small. Both are right. Both are also not enough.

[Scene: Old Dock District | Afternoon]
[Visual: Collapsed piers like broken ribs against a gray sky; skeletal warehouses half-swallowed by the tide. Salt-tolerant vines press into rusted metal.]
[Music: Sparse cello with a hollow wind instrument accentuating emptiness]
[Sound: Creaking timber, distant sirens, the low mechanical thump of emergency pumps]

You arrive to a smell that makes you stop—rotted wood and salt and something fouler, the old oil-sweet odor of things once precious now eroding. The Old Dock District is a photograph pulled taut then torn: warehouses with their front teeth missing, banners whipping like hands that cannot hold on, and the docks you used to walk on reduced to a ragged, swollen seam.

Neighbors crowd the raised walkways, eyes rimmed with salt and grief. Someone has strung a line of photographs where the water has receded enough to tack them to pilings — faces you know, a child with a kite, Toma younger and laughing. They are ghosted now by mud and the dark smear of what the storms took.

A municipal drone circles, recording angles. Its voice—thin, neutral—pipes a city alert: "Emergency stabilization measures active. Evacuation recommended for exposed sectors." The voice is unblinking; its neutrality tastes like accusation.

Neighbor 1: "They told us—evacuation route at Canal Twelve. Move what's left. Move it all."  
Neighbor 2: (hoarse) "What left? The left is mud."

You move through the groups, hands balled, pulling a tarp to help bundle a damp mattress. Every motion is a small defiance against the sense of erosion—not only of land, but of memory.

From the edge of the wreckage, a projection blooms against a warehouse face: Rin Voss, immaculate in storm-gray, the company's wave insignia behind her. Her voice is measured, urgent; the feed runs on every municipal channel at once.

Rin Voss (on projection): "We cannot afford fragmented responses when the city itself is at risk. Centralized stabilization is the only way to ensure long-term safety. The consortium will implement TideGrid modules in exposed sectors immediately."

The projection's light flatters her, hiding edges. In the low light her amber eyes feel like a measured fire. When she says "we," the city hears a promise and a command braided together.

Someone in the crowd spits, a small, sharp sound that the projection cannot process.

Neighbor 3: "So now they tell us we were reckless for loving our streets. Reckless for planting beds instead of billion-dollar machines."

The press arrives not as a single actor but as a chorus—recorders out, microphones reaching like hungry hands. Their captions will be unkind and efficient later: "Local Idealists Play With Matches" or "Community Resilience Fails on Outer Rim." You can feel the narrative settling like dust on cloth.

You find Elias at the perimeter of the crowd, jacket darker from the damp. He stands with his back to the ruined piers, watching nothing and everything. His hands are empty.

Elias Kade: "I read the latest from the test sweeps this morning. I—(he inhales) there were models that showed this could happen, that local efforts would... I'm sorry, Maia. I didn't foresee how fast the surge would take the docks."

The words tumble out, and his mouth tightens around 'sorry' like an unfamiliar shape. You have heard apologies before; some are ritual, some are raw.

Maia Soler: "You didn't foresee it? Or you built a model and it frightened you into certainty."  
Elias Kade: (quietly) "I thought—if we could slow it, if we could give communities time—maybe the Grid could wait. But the models—some of them said both. They said small-scale buys time. They also said big-scale could prevent a systemic breach. I kept folding the results until what I wanted was the one that fit."

You hold his gaze. The air between you is salt and complaint. He reaches for a hand that hesitates.

Elias Kade: (soft) "I still believe in scale. I still think the TideGrid can do what we designed it to do. I also think you were right to put muscle where people live. I don't have the right answer."

Maia Soler: "Right answer. Right for who? Right under what politics? You're talking about designs and models as if the sea is a math problem to be solved without consequence."

Elias's jaw moves. He is someone who eats numbers for comfort, and now those numbers taste of ash.

Elias Kade: "I know. I know I'm part of something bigger, and seeing this—seeing the docks—it's like the models moved from a screen into a throat you can't reach."

His fingers find yours then, uncertain, seeking an agreement that is not there yet. The contact is a question more than a comfort.

Old Man Toma steps between you with a hand on your shoulder, steady as a pier.

Old Man Toma: "We fixed what we could. That does not make us reckless. That makes us human."

His voice is quiet but cuts through the broadcast static. People turn and look; some nod, some avert eyes. The press scribbles.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step forward and speak to the press") -> Reaction: "You climb onto a crate and let the press's lens find you. Your voice is raw but precise: 'We built gardens, pumps, and fellowship because those are the things that keep a neighborhood alive. If stabilization comes, let it come with consent, oversight, and the guarantee that memory will not be bulldozed.' Cameras flare; a dozen hands point microphones like compasses. You feel both exposed and necessary.' || Choice B ("Pull Elias aside—insist on privacy") -> Reaction: "You take Elias by the arm and pull him into the shadow of a warehouse. There, you demand clarity, not excuses. He answers with data and regret, and you hammer at him with what 'people' means. He doesn't have the words to smooth what the city has fractured, but his hands try. The exchange tastes of salt and unfinished sentences." ]

Whether you choose to speak into the glare or to pry for tenderness in private, the outcome of the day's events will not be altered by that single moment. The city shifts beneath both choices.

[Scene: Canal Twelve | Evening]
[Visual: Market stalls are dimmer; neon awnings still glow but lamplight catches on wet wood. Small boats tie up farther inshore than they used to.]
[Music: Low, foreboding piano; single sustained string notes]
[Sound: The market's usual music is absent; instead, the mechanical thrum of remote stabilizers—test modules—can be heard across the water]

You come to Canal Twelve because it is where people trade both goods and stories. The market now carries an undertone of tribunal: locals trade produce in hushed, careful voices; some stalls are closed with hastily nailed boards. A vendor stares at a broadcast held on a wrist tablet; the caption scrolls: "Rin Voss: Emergency Mandate Enacted."

A city official in a water-resistant jacket reads out a municipal ordinance while two TideGrid transport barges, their hulls shining, maneuver into place at the mouth of the canal. The barges are impressive—sleek, efficient, humming with the promise and threat of scale. Their arrival feels like a shadow passing over the market. People quiet as if in the presence of a deity both savior and judge.

Press shouts questions at Rin's projection; she answers with crisp, utilitarian language, each syllable designed to make the mandate unavoidable. The consortium moves fast; the mandate reads like inevitability.

Rin Voss (projected): "The TideGrid modules will be deployed to exposed districts effective immediately. This is not punishment for local initiative. It is necessary triage to secure the city."

Someone near you says "triage" as though the word itself were a wound.

You cross the market and find a small circle of neighbors—the same ones who helped plant the terraces. Their faces are tired and raw, stitch marks of salt on cheeks. Ibe looks ten years older. Toma stares into the water as if trying to memorize its surface.

Maia Soler: "They'll take control. They'll tell us it's for the good, and they'll make it sound like the only way."

Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye: "And if the only way looks like forgetting us? What do we fight to keep then?"

You think of the photographs on the docks, the banners, the songs older than the flood. You think of the terraces' roots reaching down into reclaimed earth. You think of Elias and the bracket he made and the way he tried to do both worlds justice but was caught between them.

Elias joins the circle, the dusk making his face less distinct. He does not look triumphant. He looks tired, as if the equations that once comforted him have become a ledger of loss.

Elias Kade: "Rin's mandate will bring stability to sectors at risk. It will keep markets from submerging. It will probably save lives. But it will also—(he searches) it will centralize control. The question is how much authority will be ceded and at what human cost."

You remember the old municipal boards, the way decisions in glass rooms ricochet down alleys into lives. Your hands ache from the day: splinters, blistered knuckles from hauling, the small cuts earned saving a tarp from a collapse. The ache is a ledger of effort and proof that you have been trying.

A broadcast crackles, an anchor's voice trying to splice nuance into headlines: "Communities celebrated for resilience—critics argue it's insufficient." It reads as if the city needs critics more than it needs help.

Old Man Toma: "If they build the Grid without us, they'll stabilize levels but not the ways we talk to each other. They can steady sea, but can they hold memory?"

There is no answer that feels clean. You and Elias stand near a stall that sells ceramic bowls painted with waves. You run a thumb along a painted horizon and feel the undulation of glaze and decades.

Elias Kade: (soft) "I never wanted you to feel like you had to choose because of me."

Maia Soler: "You didn't make this choice for me, but your silence—your delays—let the tide shape the space between us. I don't know when you started apologizing to models instead of people."

He closes his eyes. For a second he looks younger, the restlessness that once drew him to design solutions flickering into regret.

Elias Kade: "I know. And I'm sorry. I want both. I want a Grid that listens, that can be turned and tuned by people who remember what was here. But that means power-sharing in real time, and I'm not naïve—those in power like doing things faster than that."

There is a long pause. The barges' lights wink like distant stars. Somewhere upstream a pump clicks over and the sound slices the evening. The air tastes faintly of ozone and diesel and something like inevitability.

You think of all you have sewn: terraces, pumps, the network of hands. You also think of the docks beneath the photographs and the thin line between being stubborn and being stubborn to the point of harm.

You imagine two futures at once and both are heavy.

[Visual: Close-up on your jacket—salt streaks dark on olive fabric; your hands uncurl slowly as if learning to carry something else]
[Music: The strings deepen, the single violin ends on an unresolved note]

Page-Turn Moment: You look at Elias, then at the bright, steady lights of the TideGrid barges sliding into the canal's mouth. The barges hum with a patient, efficient promise. Your throat tightens with the knowledge that this day will be written about in frames and headlines, in the ledger of the city's memory. You have done what you could to stitch the city together from its living parts. The stitch holds here and now, but you hear the distant sound of an enormous thing descending—a mechanism that will change the shape of every stitch you've made. You do not know whether it will save what remains or take away the right to decide.

You tuck your hand under the locket at your throat and let the weight of it press quiet against your palm. It is payment and question both. The terrace lights behind you blink like constellations of small decisions. Ahead, machines steer toward the open water with the inevitability of the tide.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Fade Out]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 9
}