[Scene: Flooded Promenade | Morning]
[Visual: Pale morning fog lifting, shallow water rippling across the stone promenade; string lights droop, reflecting in puddles]
[Music: Soft, rising ambient piano with gentle percussion]
[Sound: Low mechanical thrum of distant pumps, gull calls, the metallic tap of a lab shutter settling]

You stand ankle-deep where the old promenade used to be whole—a strip of stone now glossed with thin seawater that beads at the lip of your waterproof boots. The salt bites a clean line on your skin where socks peek out; you can taste it faintly at the back of your throat. Your dark chestnut hair is loose at your nape; the frayed blue ribbon knots at your collar, damp and smelling faintly of seaweed and cloth.

Old Man Toma moves beside you like a memory in slow motion. He pulls back the corner of his patchwork cloak and unfolds a map that looks older than anyone still living in Canal Twelve. The map is stitched into the fabric in careful, crooked embroidery—routes, shop names, the line of a street that the ocean has quietly reclaimed. The thread has faded to the color of driftwood.

Toma's voice is a gravelly thing that floats on the fog. "Used to be a bakery here," he says, tapping a place with a finger like a compass needle. "You could smell cardamom from three blocks away when the tide was low."

Maia: "It feels farther than three blocks now." (You keep your hands in your jacket pockets, though the map's paper is warm under palms used to wood and rope.)

Toma snorts softly and folds the map to show a corner where a sketch of a tree still stands, inked with a looping hand. "Distance is funny. Memory makes it close. Water makes it new. Both make it ours in different ways."

You think of the tiny photograph tucked into your copper locket—a ribbon of coast that used to be a street—and the municipal badge clipped to your field jacket, cold against your ribs. The badge rubs there, a polished reminder of the collective's name stitched to your chest: Marenport Resilience Collective. They are drafting proposals now—floating terraces, rain gardens for Canal Twelve—plans that could hold soil and seeds where there used to be asphalt. The thought sends a steady, warm pressure into your sternum: possibility threaded with obligation.

Toma watches you watch the map, his amber eyes like dried reeds. "Promise you'll plant a jasmine where that bakery was," he says, half-jest, half-instruction. "So my nose can cheat and pretend."

You smile despite a pull of tiredness at the corners of your eyes. "I'll see if jasmine likes salt," Maia says, and the sound of your own voice steadies you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Trace the shoreline with a fingertip") -> Reaction: "Your fingertip travels the embroidered coastline, catching on a tiny knot where a lane used to be. Salt from the promenade prickles against your skin. For a moment the city becomes a map you can steer by touch — small, alterable, human-made." || Choice B ("Fold the map back into the cloak carefully") -> Reaction: "You fold the map back along the original creases, the motion almost ceremonial. The paper smells of salt and smoke. Toma nods, pleased, as if the act of careful folding keeps the memory brave and ready for telling later."]

Toma chuckles at whatever you choose; his approval is a warm, creased thing. He tucks the map back into the patchwork as if sliding the past safely onto his shoulder. Above the sound of the pumps, you hear a child calling out from a nearby raised walkway. Life goes on—clamorous and fragile.

From the boardwalk, Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye is already waiting, leaning on a hand-hewn railing. His grin is wide enough to catch sun when it peeks through clouds; his hands are splintered, the nails black with tar and wood-resin. He smells of fresh-cut timber and citrus oil—the scent you associate with repair and stubborn optimism.

Ibe: "Morning, Maia. Toma still keeping the treasure maps warm?"

Maia: "He insists the treasure is a bakery. I say the treasure is whatever won't fall to the tide first."

Ibe laughs, then gestures to a cluster of pilings jutting like stubby teeth from the water. "Those pilings can be salvaged if we brace 'em right. The ones by the old lamp-post? Rot's only on the surface. We can repurpose them—platforms, planters. Could even rig a drip line for the hedgerows you like."

Maia: "Hedgerows—salt-tolerant, right? Not the old sweet shrubs, but something that holds soil and promises."

Ibe: "Exactly. Give me nails and rope and at least three people who hate fancy bureaucracy, and I'll make you a terrace that'll look like it grew there forever."

You tighten the multi-tool bracelet around your wrist without thinking—its cool metal a second heartbeat. The Marenport Resilience Collective's proposals feel hopeful and unwieldy at once. Community designs mean slower consensus, arguing at dawn, muddy knees and someone else's dog stealing your gloves. But they also mean everyone keeps a piece of the place.

Maia: "We can post a call. Old Man Toma can tell the kids. Ibe, you can lead salvage. I'll coordinate with the Collective—see where the terrace plans line up with what we can actually do."

Ibe rubs his hands together like he's already counting boards. "You organizing, me building. It's practically tradition."

Maia: "And you're in charge of the jokes while ladders are being handed down."

Ibe scoffs and then grins. "Hey, my jokes provide structural support."

The three of you fall into the comfortable choreography of planning and teasing. Toma offers a story about a winter when the tide froze in odd shapes and kids used the ice like a theater stage; Ibe shakes his head and calls the story nonsense, but you file the image away—windows of memory, like panels of a communal mural.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Sketch a quick plan on a scrap of waterproof paper") -> Reaction: "You rummage for a scrap and sketch a rough layout: pilings here, planters there, drip lines threaded like veins. The lines feel reassuring in your hand; even a small diagram makes chaos look manageable." || Choice B ("Stand back and listen while they argue details") -> Reaction: "You fold your arms and listen as Ibe and Toma work out measurements and disputes. Their voices overlap—one practical, one nostalgic—and you notice how both are necessary to the plan taking shape. You breathe easier, feeling the plan cohere beneath the chatter."]

Ibe and Toma volley back and forth—half measurements, half memory—and you interleave them with the Collective's broader plan in your head. The city's hum is more than machines; it's the sound of people aligning effort. It makes you feel less alone in the longstanding scrape of responsibilities.

A gull arcs low, sifting through the morning light, and the sun finally breaks a ribbon of gold across the water. The light catches the damp ribbon at your collar; the blue frays burn with warmth. The world tilts just a fraction toward possible things—soil that will hold seed, terraces that won't wash away, a neighbor's home shored up with hands that remember how to bind.

Maia: "We'll start with the pilings this week," you say. "I'll talk to the Collective about matching their terrace layout with our salvageable bits. If we do this right, Canal Twelve doesn't just survive—maybe it'll be nicer than before."

Toma's laugh is dry and surprised. "Nicer? You always aim too high, girl."

You feel a small, resistant smile lift your face. Hope has a way of swelling quietly, like tidewater under a door. It doesn't erase worry, but it hums beneath it—an engine you can feed with labor and stubbornness.

You touch the municipal badge at your chest. It warms to your palm as if it recognizes the promise. The city stirs—the taps at the Saltglass Lab click louder for an instant; someone calls your name from a distance and the sound folds neatly into the plan forming between you, Ibe, and Toma.

Promise sits in your bones in a way that feels like an oath rather than a plan. You tighten the multi-tool bracelet again, more deliberately this time, as if sealing the vow.

[Direction: The camera pulls back slowly, showing the trio's silhouettes against the water-bright promenade, the promise of terraces and hedgerows like a geometric future sketched over tide lines]
[Music: Swells into a hopeful chord with soft strings]

You step away from the map, from the boardwalk chatter, toward the place where Canal Twelve will be stitched anew. The morning sun lays a ribbon of light across the water and for a heartbeat the entire city looks like a place that can be mended by hands it already has.

You take a breath—salt, moss, and the faint ozone of distant labs—and hold it.

[Visual: Close-up on the multi-tool bracelet; the metal catches light and throws a tiny reflection onto the water]
[Sound: A single metallic snap—like the closing of a clasp, or the beginning of something being set in motion]

You think, briefly, about the small and the large: hedgerows and terraces, maps and municipal badges. Each stitch, each nail, each vote threads into a larger pattern.

Page-turning thought: there will be meetings, plans, devices that hum with other people's certainty; there will also be hands like Ibe's and stories like Toma's to steady you. For now, the first board is set; now is the time to gather people who will carry the next one.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 2
}