[Scene: Town Hall / Converted Market Hall | Evening — Stormlight]
[Visual: A vaulted market hall repurposed for council; strings of industrial lamps drip with rainlight through high glass. Stormclouds press low over the harbor, casting the room in a muted, silver wash.]
[Music: Quiet, steady piano underscored by a low rhythmic pulse—movement without panic]
[Sound: The steady hiss of rain on the panes, cups clinking, murmurs folding into a tense hush]

You come back into the hall on the tail of the council meeting — the space still smells of strong coffee and the brackish tang of the sea. Your hair sticks damp to your temple; your gloves swing from a belt loop like a metronome of work undone. Around you, the converted market holds its old noise inside new, nervous order: folding chairs, protest flyers taped to columns, a long table where Mayor Serena will sit with her civic sash like an anchor.

[Visual: Close on Mayor Serena Okoye — exhausted, composed; a soft crease between her brows shows a week of sleepless negotiation]
Mayor Serena Okoye: "We asked for input, and we've gotten it. Tonight we listen again, because the choices now are both urgent and fragile."

Her voice is even; in it you can hear the calculus of a hundred stakeholders. You feel, immediately and always, that this room balances people and deadlines like a scale that will never be entirely even.

[Visual: Elias steps forward, tablet in hand; light from the projection puddles on the wet floor]
Elias Rook: "The updated models are clearer. If we phase modular barriers with strategically placed green berms and rooftop retention, projected damage to residential zones drops by thirty-two percent in high-surge scenarios."

He speaks with the soft, quick cadence of someone used to persuading with numbers. He taps the glass; floodlines bloom in cool blues, then overlay with patches of green where vegetated solutions sit like islands.

You watch the projections and think of soil and roots — the places where data must meet hands. Elias meets your gaze for a beat longer than usual; there is a question there, the one that always lives between you: will the math bend to the maps you draw with seedlings?

Jonah taps a screen of his own; his renderings replace stormwater with plazas and neat levees under warm LED mockups.
Jonah Hale: "Timelines matter. Investors and insurers need certainty. My plan buys time for the harbor's economy. We can't let idealism strand people when there's a practical path forward."

He smiles like a man offering a rope. The lapel pin at his chest glints; the room feels colder when he talks of markets.

Kira is already standing, rain beading off her ink-blue coat.
Kira Tseng: "Practicality mustn't be an excuse for bulldozing our homes. We need a binding moratorium on displacement while any construction happens. Promises on paper aren't enough."

She jabs a finger into a stack of signed petitions. Her voice cracks bright and propulsive; it lands in the center of the hall and won't let go. You feel the pull to join that forward motion, the way hope can sound like a demand.

Mateo leans on a cane near the back, his hands smelling of salt and old nets. He asks for a paper map — the tactile thing of a life lived by touch rather than touchscreen.
Mateo Alvarez: "Bring me a map, niña. There's an old pier there. They buried it with landfill when the first boom came. If you listen to the currents, you'll hear its bones still."

A piece of the room softens; his voice carries memory as evidence. You imagine the greenhouse: steam beading on glass, the low hive of plants, the small, stubborn heat of community cooking in a storm. The image steadies you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step forward quietly to hand Mateo the paper map") -> Reaction: "You move through a ring of people, the soles of your boots whispering on wet concrete. Mateo's fingers close around the paper like it's a compass." || Choice B ("Call out a brief affirmation for Kira's moratorium from where you stand") -> Reaction: "Your voice threads through the room: a single, clear 'Yes.' Kira's jaw softens for a fraction; a ripple of approval swells behind her."]

The meeting unspools in layered turns. Elias answers Jonah's financing numbers with reworked phasing and a lower-cost pilot for the first block; Jonah counters with bond timelines and guarantees for commercial hubs. Serena listens, sometimes closing her eyes like a person trying to hold too many threads at once.

Mayor Serena Okoye: (to Elias) "If we accept a pilot, can the lab commit to community co-leads for data collection? Not token seats — real veto on displacement triggers."

Elias: (a beat; earnest) "Yes. I can build governance into the model. We can place local monitors on the berm sites and integrate qualitative reports into the risk thresholds."

Jonah: (curt) "Governance layers slow capital. If you inflate the process, you push out the contractors who can do this at scale."

Elias: (heated, softer) "We're not inflating; we're drawing in the people who know the ground. If we ignore that, blueprints will sit on shelves while neighborhoods go under."

His voice carries a vulnerability that doesn't often appear in his lab reports. You can sense in him the same private argument you have with yourself — how to marry the clean lines of models with the messy work of tending soil and hope.

Kira steps up, not to the microphone but to the chest of the room.
Kira: "We can't be annexed into someone else's protection while losing our storerooms and kitchens. We've survived storms by helping one another. You can't model that on a spreadsheet."

There is applause that sounds like a single hand slapping a table and then a chorus. Jonah's jaw tightens; Serena's fingers drum the table as though drawing a new map.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Move to stand beside Kira as a visible pledge") -> Reaction: "You rise and step into her line as the room finds you — a small, human amplification of her call. A few heads turn, some nod; others frown, weighing the costs." || Choice B ("Catch Elias's eye and lift a hand toward the projected map, signaling your willingness to collaborate") -> Reaction: "Elias notices. For a second his features smooth into something like relief; he returns the nod, and the floodlines on the glass look less like threats and more like contours you might walk together."]

Mateo clears his throat and tells the story of the old pier with the sort of detail only someone who has walked tides could have. He traces lines with a calloused finger on the paper map as if stirring memory into plan.

Mateo Alvarez: "When the pier went, we thought it was progress. They filled and forgot. But the water remembers. Gardens anchored to that seam don't forget either. If you pull the wrong thing up, the rest loosens."

The room leans in. Even Jonah's posture flickers like current. Serena exhales; it's a small human sound that changes the meeting's texture.

Mayor Serena Okoye: "This is the question, then: how do we balance urgent engineering that saves lives with the social fabric that keeps a neighborhood alive? I need the room's sense — not just rhetoric. Where do we, as a city, want to place our weight?"

The request is both invitation and pivot. Conversation fractures along three visible pillars — you can feel them like modes of pressure in your chest:
- Urgent Engineering: The language of bond timelines and immediate protection.
- Community Preservation: Kira and Mateo's insistence on moratoria and place-based rights.
- Political Compromise: Serena's weary middle ground, trying to stitch together votes and permits.

You stand at the hinge. In your head the greenhouse fog simmers: leaves slick with condensation, jars of seedlings labeled in handwriting you know, the rooftop terraces humming with small, persistent life. Losing them to a levee is not just losing soil — it is losing a daily choreography of care and belonging you have stewarded.

Elias moves closer to the projection; his voice drops to you as if those words are meant only for your ears and the map.
Elias Rook: (soft) "If you work with me, Ayla—" (he falters, then corrects) "—if you work with me, we can bake your network into the model. We can protect thresholds. We can try to make it so your gardens aren't the sacrifice."

You can hear the plea beneath the engineering: a hope that expertise can be cupped into tenderness.

Jonah interjects, not loudly, but with the firmness of someone who believes in deadlines.
Jonah Hale: "Or she can press for a stopgap that risks project cancellation and delayed protections. I won't hide that losses increase if we don't move quickly."

His words are a framing: urgency or stasis. It's a false binary and everyone in the room knows it, which tightens the air in a productive way. You feel the common space between options narrow to a point where your choice matters.

Kira catches your eye, then the eye of Mateo, then Serena. Her expression is pure demand and trust braided together.
Kira: "Will you stand with us, Ayla? We need leaders who don't negotiate away our homes."

You inhale. The rain hammers a little harder against the glass, the soundtrack quickening into the middle tempo of necessity. This is the cresting point of the night—the moment the city's next move will hinge.

Your palms are damp. Your seed vial swings against your sternum like a pendulum of memory and possibility. You can see, almost physically, three paths branching from where you are: a lab bench lined with screens and a seat at Elias's table; a megaphone and a line of bodies moving out to the boardwalk with Kira; a folding door opening to a polite, high-stakes negotiation across Jonah's presentation table.

Your chest tightens — not with fear so much as the pressure that precedes action. The room leans, collectively, waiting to feel which way you will tip.

[Visual: The camera lingers on your hand brushing the vial at your throat; lights from the projections and the storm play across the glass. The meeting waits like a held breath.]

[Music: Piano holds a suspended chord; tempo ratchets slightly, signaling decision without panic]

You are asked, plainly and politically, to choose strategy now. Each path promises different kinds of preservation and different risks to the people you love.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Choose a strategic path toward the coming vote.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Work with Elias to design an integrated hybrid plan that centers green infrastructure while accepting selected engineering measures.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Join Kira and the direct-action resistance to block Jonah's project publicly and demand a moratorium.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Open a direct negotiation with Jonah to secure concessions and legal guarantees for community spaces.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}