[Scene: Saltway Cove | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Low sun gilds algae-streaked pilings; patched tarps ripple along the boardwalk. In the distance, the skeletal outline of levee cranes cuts the horizon.]
[Sound: The hiss of a grinder from Ori's corner, children's laughter, the steady slap of water against pontoons.]
[Music: Tense, pulsing strings — an anxious heartbeat under the scene]

You are up to your elbows in dirt and hope, palms black with compost and resin. The living planters Ori is welding clink on the workbench like small clanging promises. Around you, the cove hums: Silas barking a small lesson to a cluster of kids, Old Mara tending a stew pot slowly over a salvaged burner, neighbors fastening another pontoon to an old porch. It is noisy, it is alive, and it is maddeningly small against the skyline where VossCorp's machines are making more sure progress.

You chose this. You chose to keep the work local—no flashy rollout, no press conferences, just slow, stubborn building at the scale of stoops and thresholds. The conviction that pushed you into the Ferryworks still sits in your chest like a stone that steadies rather than sinks you. But the stone has weight. The world beyond Saltway is changing faster than you can plant a root.

Ori looks up from a bracket he is shaping; a smear of weld-glow on his cheek, amber eyes bright with the joy of making. He hands you a small, perfectly balanced planter—flat-bottomed, buoyant, wrapped in rope. A child's name is scratched into the rim.

Ori Navarro: "Every doorstep needs something that keeps life coming. Give them a green thing, and they keep seeing what they'll lose if they leave."

You take it the way you take most of his things: like an offering and a dare. He grins, half-mischief, half-melancholy, and for a heartbeat the two beats balance.

Ava Maren: "You make it sound easy."

Ori Navarro: "I don't. I make it look like it could be."

Silas, kneeling on a crate with a soldering iron trembling in his small hands, looks up. He has taught three neighborhood kids to solder this week; their fingers are raw with concentration and the promise of small circuitry that will power lights above doorways during storms.

Silas Roe: "Miss Ava? If we put LEDs in the planters, will they guide people who come back at night?"

You crouch to Silas's level, smelling hot metal and the sharp tang of flux.

Ava Maren: "They'll help people find their doors. They'll make home feel like it is still here."

Old Mara's voice wanders near, a low thread through the noise. She is pouring stew into bowls, her hands steady, her eyes bright with a story she hasn't started yet.

Mara Tetu: "We keep things by making smaller lights. We teach hands to remember. The ocean forgets different things every year — sometimes it's houses, sometimes it's names. We can't make it stop. We can only make what remains harder to be erased."

You listen. Her certainty is older than your plans and softer somehow — not a remedy, but a gait. You want to argue, to point at tide charts and stress tests, but the words feel thin against the heat of the cooker and the smell of broth.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Walk to the northern pier to watch the levee barges.") -> Reaction: "You stretch and move toward the pier, the smell of diesel thickening. The barges are there, systematic, men in corporate coats counting out modular walls like chess pieces; a family in the crowd folds maps into their palms and looks away. Your throat tightens." || Choice B ("Stay and finish wiring the LED planter with Silas.") -> Reaction: "You stay. The solder joint takes longer with younger hands, but when the LED blinks alive the kids whoop like you just won a small war. For a second the world is only this tiny electric pulse."] 

The choice doesn't change the tide; it only changes the angle of the ache. You choose solder over survey, and when the planter's light comes on, someone cheers and the sound lifts you. It is a small triumph—delicate, specific, full of consequence that will not reach the cranes.

Later, dusk folds the cove in a violet hush. The levee lights in the distance are a slow, migrating constellation. A truck idles near the main thoroughfare; a neighbor you know from childhood—Marin—walks by with a duffel over her shoulder, cheeks hollow with the decision she has made. She pauses at the edge of your work circle.

Marin: "You all did good work here. Better than I ever thought was possible." (She tries to smile. It shakes.) "But the housing downriver signed the papers this morning. They said they can help with a place. It's safer."

Ava Maren: "Safer isn't the same as home."

Marin's mouth tightens. She nods like a bell being tolled.

Marin: "I know. But my boy sleeps better when he's not listening for the board creak."

You want to argue — to promise replacement porches, tenure guarantees — but some offers are not refused because they are good; they are accepted because the person making them is tired. Your chest scrapes against a wall of helplessness.

Old Mara comes to stand by Marin, takes her hand in two weathered ones. Mara's eyes are not scolding, only steady.

Mara Tetu: "You take care of your boy. If the water changes its mind, we'll still have his name on the list. We've got ways to keep some places here open. But you go and we'll keep the hearth for you, child."

Marin slips away, duffel swinging, leaving behind a half-hung banner that flutters like an unfinished sentence.

[Scene: Boardwalk Workshop | Night]
[Visual: Lanterns swing; the Ferryworks hull gleams. Ori's welding goggles rest on his head like a crown of small spoils.]
[Sound: Welding sparks, the tide's sigh, a distant whistle from the levee site]
[Music: Crescendo — restless percussion, a violin line that quickens]

You and Ori sit shoulder to shoulder on an upended crate, the night making everything private and loud. He has cleaned his hands—only faint residue of metal and salt—and his eyes are more shadow than usual. The planters lay between you, each a small ecosystem waiting.

Ori Navarro: "I can go out there. There's a whole string of cities with pockets like this—people who don't want to be bulldozed but who need a leg up. I can seed them. A few prototypes, some workshops, then we come back with stories and workers and it's—" (He gestures, searching.) "—it's bigger than me, Ava."

You hear urgency under the edges of his smile: the desire to keep moving, to be useful everywhere. You also hear your own counterweight: a civic future that needs tending, roots that will not replant themselves.

Ava Maren: "We've already started something here. Silas, the kids, Old Mara's stew — those are not templates. They are lives. If you leave, will you be back? Or will the projects be breadcrumbs again?"

Ori's laugh is a small, sharp thing.

Ori Navarro: "Breadcrumbs are how you find your way, right? I keep maps in my pockets." (He taps the necklace at his throat, the fragment of seaglass catching a streetlight.) "I can't promise you'll see me every month. I can promise I won't forget how to come home."

Ava Maren: "Promises are a strange currency when the tide is the creditor."

He reaches for you and you take the hand as if to test the grip. For a moment, skin and salt and warmth anchor a promise into being.

Ori Navarro: "I don't want to make you ask me to stay. I want to make staying a choice you make because the world we build here is worth the wait."

You look at him and the world tilts. All the things he wants—to spread, to make, to run—push against your purpose to ground. The conversation turns like a tide.

Ava Maren: "What if the world we build here needs you not to leave? What then?"

Ori's jaw tightens. He looks away briefly, counting off reasons to go like beads.

Ori Navarro: "Then I won't go. But if my leaving seeds two towns that keep their people—that's not abandoning you. It's making more homes. You'd do it too."

You almost feel anger at the neat way he frames the split as mutual. Instead you feel something hotter: panic. You press the planters flat into the wood as if they could be riveted to the dock and hold the future by force.

Ava Maren: "You can't keep collecting other people's futures and call it generosity."

Ori smiles, small and rueful, and the laugh falls out of him like a sigh.

Ori Navarro: "Sometimes I steal futures and call them prototypes. You call them theft. We both have names for what we do."

There is silence long enough for the tide to fill it. Then you both speak at once, like two O's in a bell, colliding and answering.

Ori Navarro: "I love you, you know."

Ava Maren: "I know."

Both of you try to hold the syllables from breaking into bargaining. But the night wants the truth to be louder than your shields.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Cling to his hand and beg him not to go.") -> Reaction: "Your fingers knot; your voice breaks. For a scoreboard second he hesitates and his eyes brim. It feels decisive, scalding, like begging for a tether in a storm." || Choice B ("Let go gently and tell him to do what he must.") -> Reaction: "You loosen your grip like loosening a knot in sea-rope. He reads it as acceptance, gratitude and grief folding across his face. The release is a different kind of wound."] 

You choose the release because your work cannot be chained to personal fear. The choice does not make the ache quieter.

[Scene: Tide Garden | Midnight]
[Visual: Low lanterns halo a ring of people; steam and the smell of broth hang like smoke from a quiet bonfire.]
[Sound: Old Mara's voice, confident and worn; the lull of waves; the distant hum of construction lights.]
[Music: Sparse piano under a mournful cello]

Old Mara sits on a slab of reclaimed timber and tells tide-stories—that is what she calls them, tales of the sea's memory. Children lean in as if memorizing every crack in her voice. She tells of when the quarter was more land than water, when people tied lanterns to posts in a different language.

Mara Tetu: "You must learn the names the sea will take, so you can remember what belongs to us. Remember the smell of our bread, the sound of our laughter in the rain. Repeat it until the ocean stops thinking it can take you."

You hold your cup so tightly it dents. Around you, faces are lined with fatigue and the stubborn afterglow of a day's work. There are triumphs to list: three families kept their tenure through local agreements, dozens of planters distributed, a nightly school for wiring that Silas runs. But the ledger of losses is long: Marin gone, others leaving, the levees like a slow-made wall in the distance cutting a new geography into the city.

A small chorus rises, polite and raw.

Neighbor: "We saved the northern dock, but the river families accepted the relocations."

Neighbor 2: "The city council said they'll consider community tenure—next quarter."

The phrases hang like salt on the tongue—promises, hedges, delayed relief. Your shoulders ache with the weight of both the victories and the compromises.

You find Ori by the garden's edge, where the solar sails make soft shadows. He is packing a toolbox into his satchel as if each tool is a map to somewhere else.

Ori Navarro: "I leave at first light."

He says it simply, no theatricality, as if the morning is a scheduled appointment. The sentence lands like a wave.

Ava Maren: "You said maybe."

Ori Navarro: "Sometimes maybe turns urgent. There are cities that asked for help and have banners up already. They need things, Ava. They gave me a window."

Your breath goes sharp.

Ava Maren: "Is the window small because your fear is big?"

He looks at you with that soft, exasperated look that used to be the way he disarmed a board meeting. Tonight it is an apology that has no voice.

Ori Navarro: "I'm restless. I have always been restless. I can't promise not to be. I can promise you this: the places I go will carry pieces of you because that's the way I make things. The planters, the wiring school, the kids who learned to solder—they're yours as much as mine."

You remember the first night on the Ferryworks when he held your hand over the breaker. You remember the hum then and the hum now. The memory is both a net and a blade.

Ava Maren: "And me? Where do I fit in the itinerary?"

Ori's fingers find yours, thumb gentle, and there is a tremor in his touch like a plug disconnecting.

Ori Navarro: "You keep Saltway. You hold the map where it matters. I will send returns. I'll come back when the tide allows. If it's too long—I'll be sorry, always. If it's enough—then maybe we stitch something between cities. But I won't tell you to wait. I won't ask you to anchor your life to me."

Your laugh is short, made of salt and exhaustion.

Ava Maren: "I won't become an exhibit in your traveling show."

Ori stares at you, wounded and clear.

Ori Navarro: "I don't want you to be an exhibit. I want you to be the seed. I want us to be—" (He stops, searching.) "—something that is more than a thing on a shelf."

You both know the exact shape of what he refuses to name: a life together in one place, quiet and municipal, splitting office hours between council meetings and evenings with Silas teaching kids. You both know why it is hard for him and why it is necessary for you.

[Scene: Saltway Pier | Dawn]
[Visual: Pale wash of morning; Ori's small boat bobbing against the pier as supply barges cut a slow line behind it. The levee cranes loom like patient giants to the east.]
[Sound: The slap of rope against timber, a gull that keeps circling, a muffled engine starting.]
[Music: Climactic swell — brass and strings in a tight, aching harmony]

The farewell is not a single line. It is a concatenation of small goodbyes: a cup of coffee shared in silence, the passing of his welding goggles into your care, a last look at the kids asleep in the workshop. Your sea-glass bracelet—the one wrapped in fishing twine—catches his fingers as he laces them through yours.

You try to memorize the weight of his hand. His amber eyes are luminous and broken, the kind of look that should be a map for how to live and mourn in the same body.

Ori Navarro: "Take care of them for me. Take care of Saltway."

Ava Maren: "Take care of yourself."

The words feel almost laughable in their laconic politeness. You both laugh once, because it is better than nothing, because the sound makes space for grief. Then the boat rocks beneath his feet.

Ori leans in. His mouth hovers near your ear. You smell the faint copper of solder and the faint trace of diesel and the sea.

Ori Navarro (soft): "When you see a planter with a crooked stitch, curse me. When it thrives, don't forget to brag."

Ava Maren: "And when you're lonely?"

Ori hesitates. For the first time his improviser smile falls away and he gives you the thing you wanted—ugly, vulnerable truth.

Ori Navarro: "I'll write. Maybe I'll knock on your door like a fool. Maybe you'll let me in. Maybe you'll slam it. I will still be foolish."

Your hands make the choice you have already decided: you slide the sea-glass bracelet from your wrist and press it into his palm. It is a small, useless act and a necessary one.

Ava Maren: "Take this. So you can't forget the harbor when the cities get loud."

Ori's fingers close around the beads. He brings the bracelet to his face as if blessing a photograph. His laugh is a tremor.

Ori Navarro: "I won't."

He steps back, hauling the satchel over his shoulder. He bends and presses his forehead to yours like a benediction. For a long, hot second you both breathe the same air and the world feels taut enough to snap.

Then he turns, climbing into the boat. The motor coughs. Neighbors stand along the pier, some with faces dry, some wet, all bearing witness. Old Mara lifts a hand and murmurs a tide-story blessing that looks ancient and formal and also strangely like permission.

Mara Tetu: "Go well, maker. Return if you can. If you do not, send the stories so we may keep them."

The boat moves away slow, a tiny craft swallowed by a wide gray world. You watch until his figure shrinks and the amber of his eyes becomes only a dot between the cranes and the water. The levée lights blink like distant verdicts.

You want to run after him, to wave, to call, to demand that he stay. Instead, you plant your feet on the pier and feel the boards under your soles — the same boards that have borne children, stalls, grief, and laughter. The sensation grounds you more effectively than any promise.

[Visual: Close-up on your hand as you retie a knot on a baling rope; the gesture is small, practical, unornamented.]
[Sound: The faint hum of a far-off barge; the gull's single call like punctuation]
[Music: The strings settle into a low, steady drone — grief and resolve braided]

You are left with a long list of things to do: fixes, water pumps to recalibrate, the wiring course curriculum to update, permits to keep eyes on, Jun's last piece of footage to distribute to sympathetic councils. The work is not glamorous; it is a pilgrimage of repairs.

You feel the ache of loss like a fresh bruise—hollow and tender. But beneath it is a steadier thing: the knowledge that people are still here, that the planters glow on stoops, that Silas will keep teaching, that Old Mara will keep telling tide-stories until her voice runs out. The city will continue to change in ways you cannot control. You will keep doing the things you can.

Ava Maren: "We keep the cove. We keep our people. We make the small things that keep a neighborhood from forgetting itself."

You speak the sentence aloud to the morning as if making it law. The words hang, and someone nearby repeats them softly—an echo of agreement and a small shared covenant.

[Visual: Wide shot of Saltway Cove as light spreads; planters glowing dimly on doorsteps, people moving with purpose; cranes in the distance continuing their slow rise.]
[Music: A soft, aching motif — low strings and a distant brass chord that resolves but does not promise ease]

You do not know if the work will be enough. You do not know when the levees will meet the sea in a way that makes safety merely a word in a brochure. But you know this: you have chosen a ground to stand on. You have chosen the people who will keep making the small, stubborn things that become memory-anchors. You have chosen to hold a civic future here, even if it costs you pieces you would have rather kept whole.

You turn from the pier and walk back toward the boardwalk where the neighborhood waits—unfinished, alive, stubborn as a reef. Each step is heavy and sure, a footfall that counts as protest and prayer. The morning air tastes like salt and new solder. You breathe it in.

[Visual: Fade to soft focus on the planters glowing in the early light; the camera lingers on a single bead of sea-glass in the sand, catching the sun.]
[Music: A final, low chord — acceptance braided with ache]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}