[Scene: Saltway Cove | Morning — A raw, wind-moved light]
[Visual: Wide shot of the cove; patched pontoons, floating planters bobbing, the Ferryworks hull glinting with bottle-mosaic. In the far distance, a line of cranes and a clean, pale arc of rising levee under construction.]
[Sound: Metal striking pile-drivers beyond the skyline; gulls slicing through the noise; children laughing, a soldering iron’s high, steady whine]
[Music: Urgent strings under a low, insistent percussion]

You wake to the cove already moving. Fingers of sunlight cut through salt-fog and illuminate small uprisings of green: seedlings in reclaimed pots, algae-scrubbed ropes, a new row of floating planters Ori finished last night. The air tastes of coffee, solder, and brine; it carries the hard percussion of construction from the other side of the water—an industrial heartbeat that never quite leaves.

There is no fanfare. There is only hands.

You pull your field jacket closer against the wind and step onto the boardwalk. A dozen tasks bloom into being as you arrive: Silas corralling a half-dozen kids around a salvaged soldering station, Old Mara fanning a cluster of listeners with a salt-stained shawl, a family tying a trunk down to a punt so they can test its float. The work is a sharp, continuous urgency—every small fix a way to keep a house livable for one more season.

Silas: "Ava—watch the tip. Hot enough, but careful—tilt, then steady. Good. Nice work, Lina."

You hover, offering a hand, then find yourself checking the ledger on your tablet, the list of who needs pontoons, which pilings have been reinforced, who accepted the relocation vans, and who swore they'd rather risk the tide than lose their home.

Ava Maren: "How many planters did Ori finish last night?"

Silas (grinning): "Enough that Old Mara's stoop will be a jungle within a week if she doesn't stop giving them names."

You let a laugh slip out; it sounds too small for the pressure in your chest.

Ori Navarro (from a low, productive place at the workbench): "Morning, stubborn. You look like you could use a coffee and a mortar."

There is an easy cadence in his voice that has kept you steady for months—an artful deflection from the tighter things neither of you likes to say. He holds up a warped metal bracket with the proud flourish of someone who has coaxed beauty out of scrap.

Ava Maren: "You keep finding charm in thing that should be functional and leave the charm to the plants, Ori."

Ori (smiling, then softer): "Charm sells better with plants. Functional sells better with stubborn women who keep the numbers right."

You pretend to scold him and fail, because the joke lands where warmth always does: right at the edge of everything you would rather not confront.

[Visual: Close-up on your sea-glass bracelet clinking against the notebook at your hip]
[Sound: A van door slamming in the distance; an abrupt shout of gratitude from someone receiving supplies]

You can feel the pressure tightening: VossCorp’s levees are taking shape in the distance like a pale, patient promise to some. Some neighbors have taken the relocation offers—fewer than the company hoped, but enough to make the loss tangible. Each packed box is a small erosion. Each kept house is a victory and a risk—neither neutral.

Old Mara (calling): "Sit! Sit close—there's story for those who stayed."

You find yourself pulled into the circle around Old Mara anyway. The kids' feet drip on your boots. The world compresses into her voice: tide-stories, names of old pathways through the marsh, a memory of a night with stars like seaglass. Her hands map the past across the air, and for a breath you imagine a future in which those stories keep being told, uninterrupted.

Old Mara: "You teach them to read the water, Ava. You teach them which seasons give and which seasons take. That knowledge is armor."

You let the word armor sink in. It is not enough against pile-drivers, against polished promises, but it is something.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Stay with Silas and the kids—teach a soldering trick") -> Reaction: "You kneel by the little station, fingers steady. The solder melts under your careful hand; a child's face opens in the small, bright astonishment of new skill." || Choice B ("Walk the line of houses—check for leaks and call Maya about the supply manifest") -> Reaction: "You move down the boardwalk, knocking on doors, ears straining for creaks and weeps. You call Maya; her voice is brisk, tired, but relieved to be on the same page."]

[Visual: Time-lapse; hands and faces blur with repair work; boats shift against moorings]
[Music: Shifts — staccato strings racing, a high synth note like a distant alarm]

You work until the sun becomes a hot, bright bruise in the sky. There is a sliver of triumph in the way plants now line every stoop and in the way children are learning to solder copper without burning themselves—small distributed resilience. The Ferryworks hums with it: a net of people, of rehearsed procedures and impromptu innovations.

But the other air persists—the sound of levee plating being welded, the corporate drones that map your reinforcements with indifferent efficiency. Newsfeeds crop with images of polished floodgates and smiling engineers. There is a pressure, a centrifugal pull of capital and authority attempting to redraw the edges of a life you’ve spent building.

Ori finds you later by the Tide Garden's edge, hands inked with grease. He is quieter than usual.

Ori Navarro: "They're running tests on the new model down by the Glass Pier. The sensors say the levee will take the next couple of tides—at least on paper."

Ava Maren (to yourself, first): "On paper."

Ava Maren (aloud): "Plans are sympathetic to paper."

Ori studies the water. There is a restlessness in him you have learned to read like weather.

Ori Navarro: "I've been… thinking. Not about Saltway; about where else this could fit. Others call me in. Cities that have an ear for this sort of patchwork. I can split myself—"

He stops, as if searching for a better verb.

Ava Maren: "Split yourself from us."

Ori (defensive laugh): "Not from us. From here. To seed other places. They'll welcome the prototypes if I go with the right demo. You'll keep this place running. We'll—"

Silas (arriving, sensing the tone): "Ori—if you go, who's teaching the kids the ways to keep a ring of pontoons from sagging? Who's turning those ugly brackets into tiny habitats?"

Ori (to Silas): "You are. You all are."

The air tightens. You realize this is not the first time the conversation has curved toward distance. The prototype never remained purely local; Ori built it to travel like a seed. You have always known his hands prefer to keep moving. But knowledge and acceptance are not the same thing.

Ava Maren: "You built the parts, Ori. You brought light into this place with your hands. But this—" (your voice narrows, urgent) "—isn't just a kit to be dropped. It is people. It is tenure. It is the difference between someone staying and someone leaving in the night."

Ori Navarro (his expression fracturing): "I know. I know. I'm not pretending otherwise. But some places need help turning what you call 'people' into systems before your paperwork saves anyone. I can get the demos to communities who have been erased already. I can make a map of failures so they don't have to relive them."

Ava Maren (thinking): The argument is rational on his part. It is also a clean exit if you let it be. The cove beats in your chest like a heart that will not give up; his need to roam is a tide he cannot hold back.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask him to stay for the winter—offer him a role formalizing the apprenticeship program") -> Reaction: "You speak fast, offering structure and a title you can hardly afford emotionally. Ori's fingers tighten on the bracket; he smiles but it trembles." || Choice B ("Tell him to go—bless it and mean it") -> Reaction: "You say the words that let him leave. They land like stones into the water—hard, irreversible. His shoulders fold and something like relief and grief cross his face."]

You realize, with a force that is almost physical, that no choice will remove the ache. If he stays, you anchor him and risk him eroding and hating you later for it. If he goes, you keep the place but lose the immediate warmth of his presence—someone who made beauty out of scraps. Either option costs.

[Visual: Evening descends; lanterns gutter up like stars pressed close to the water]
[Sound: The levee's welding goes on with an unceasing rasp in the far dark; a distant cheer and then a soft sob as a boat pulls away]
[Music: A single high violin note stretches and tightens, then a swell]

You spend the evening reinforcing pilings while people eat under patched tarps. There are songs and there are lists. Old Mara, in the small hours, tells stories that stitch past to present—tales of stubborn communities who outlasted single storms only to be undone by slow, silent decisions made in distant rooms. Her voice is small but unyielding.

Old Mara: "Remember this—no gift that moves you out of place is kindness. Some promises are coral made into cages."

You hold on to that line as the hours thin. In the dim light you find Ori again; he has packed a satchel with tools and a map folded so small the creases are like lines on a palm. He smells of metal and oil and the faint smoke from last night's tea.

Ori Navarro (soft): "You could come with me for a bit. See the demos in the field. Help them stand. Then come home."

Ava Maren: "And lose the ground under my feet while you test the scaffolding elsewhere?"

Ori: "You asked to keep it local. I'm asking to extend the reach. I'm not asking you to choose for me."

Ava Maren (internal): The argument is clean and truthful. His restlessness is not betrayal. It is him. But your work—your promise to the people who stayed—demands constancy.

You trace the bracelet at your wrist. The sea-glass catches the lamplight; its edges are worn smooth by tides and hands. Ori watches your fingers like a man who counts each second left as if it were currency.

Ori Navarro: "Whatever you decide… whatever life you pick, I'm with it. I'm with you, as long as you want me to be. But I won't stop moving."

Aava? (You catch yourself wanting to correct the name you say in your head—your own name becomes an anchor.) You look up and meet his amber eyes. They are luminous and broken, the way a ship's lantern looks when the glass is cracked and the flame still burns.

Ava Maren: "I want to ground a future here, Ori. I've built my life around this promise. I can't—" (your voice breaks on the word) "—I won't gamble the tenure of people who don't have the luxury to follow you."

Ori Navarro (a quick, unfair laugh): "I asked for a miracle and didn't bring one back. I'm sorry."

Ava Maren: "Don't apologize for wanting to do good."

Ori steps forward. His fingers find your wrist and slide under the sea-glass bracelet. The bead catches under his thumb and resists like a tide pooling around a rock.

Ori Navarro (whisper): "Keep it. When I'm far, and the salt gets heavy, it can be a small shore you look to."

Ava Maren (you): "Take the wrench I gave you. Fix the world and carry my curse of paperwork with you."

There is a long, corrugated silence that is louder than the pile-drivers—long enough that it accumulates feelings like barnacles on wood: gratitude, ache, fear, and the raw, wordless ways two people try to rearrange futures without breaking.

Ori Navarro: "Promise me something."

Ava Maren: "What?"

Ori Navarro: "That you'll let me send you things that aren't burdens. Not updates about levees or numbers—not only the hard things. Send me pictures of small triumphs. Send me a weed that finally took to a stoop. Send me laughter. Remind me what I risk when I leave."

Ava Maren (you): The plea is simple and human and it lands. You promise, because you always have been better at promises when your hands are full of repair and your heart is full of someone leaving.

You both laugh once—tiny and brittle—and then you move to the formal stuff as if you are packing a suitcase out of respect rather than grief: Ori folds his map, checks his satchel, secures the goggles he always forgets to wear. You hand him a thin roll of tide-charts, marked in your handwriting, the places where your designs have held and failed. You don't tell him the failures in the margins; you will keep those as lessons for nights when you can breathe.

[Visual: Dawn on the quay; the sky a bruise of gold and gray. A small boat rocks, packed with tools, plans, and a single suitcase.]
[Sound: The water slaps the hull, a distant radio static, a child crying off-screen then hushed.]

The goodbye stretches, elastic and cruel. You make it as gentle as you can and as honest as you know how.

Ava Maren: "Go. Make sure it's not just spectacle. Stay. Come back. Make the places you visit into a line that leads back here."

Ori Navarro (voice breaking): "I'll try."

You do not make grand vows that cannot be kept. Instead you fold the small, practical things into the space between you: a list of contacts, a printed permit form with signatures, a photograph of a child holding a planter. You let him tuck your bracelet under a strap so it can jostle against his tools and be a thing that reminds him—reminds both of you.

Ori Navarro: (near whisper) "This is not the end."

Ava Maren (you): "It is an end of a kind. It's an ending that will make the next day louder."

He steps into the boat. The engine coughs awake. The world compresses into the motion of departure—the slip of rope, the last wave of a hand. You stand on the quay and let the boat pull away, watching the small, dark silhouette recede until it is only a dot against the industrial horizon.

[Sound: The engine's thrum grows thin; the pile-drivers sound like a heartbeat far off; a gull's cry cuts high and clean]
[Music: A high, sustained chord breaks and dissolves into a slow, rhythmic pulse — grief set to work]

You feel the thing settle inside you that has been waiting—a grief that is also a decision hardened into resolve. Your chest is tight with a kind of furious tenderness: the community is intact in part, not whole; your love remains, altered by distance and duty. The levee continues to climb on the far shore. Some neighbors left to the measured safety of engineered certainty; others stayed because they had no other map.

Old Mara comes up beside you, her fingers cold and sure on your shoulder.

Old Mara: "You did what you could, child. The rest is tide and time."

You let yourself lean on her. It is not surrender. It is the quiet resumption of the work that must go on regardless of who stands beside you.

Silas bumps your elbow with a grin that is mostly brave. He hands you a tiny soldered charm—an imperfect, beautiful thing Ori might have made if he were here—then runs off to teach a new kid how to strip wire.

You open your notebook and write one line: Keep the cove. Teach the kids. Build slow. Protect tenure.

The sentence sits there, plain and fierce, like a ledger entry and a prayer. You fold the page closed and clip it with a coin, anchoring it with a paperweight made from a shard of glass.

[Visual: Wide, lingering shot of Saltway Cove as activity continues; in the distance the VossArc levee slices the horizon]
[Sound: Hands at work, voices overlaying one another in the language of repair; the levee's construction remains a constant, distant percussion]
[Music: Low, somber strings resolve into an austere but steady rhythm]

You do not know if the path you chose will keep every family; you do not know if the handful of preserved houses will stand through the storms to come. What you know is immediate and solid: hands that mend, children who learn to solder, a network of small, stubborn green patches that will not be cataloged by the company brochures. These pockets of resilience are imperfect but real.

You have love that requires you to stay, and someone you love who requires movement. The two are not reconciled into a neat ending, only a lived truth: things are maintained by people who insist on staying and people who carry pieces of them outward.

You close your eyes and listen to the cove. The sound is not triumph and it is not defeat. It is the ongoing business of keeping what can be kept and naming, aloud, what cannot. You breathe, and then you go back to work.

[Music: Fade to a single sustained note, then silence]
[Visual: Fade to black]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}