[Scene: City Hall — Hearing Room | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: The public hearing room is full; theater lights wash faces in cool, harsh white. Wet footprints darken the wooden floor near the door. A temporary podium stands at center under a single strip light.]
[Music: Piano motif — steady, resolute; strings swell softly beneath, carrying a hopeful undertone.]
[Sound: Murmured voices, camera shutters, the soft tap of a moderator's gavel.]

You stand behind the lectern with the forensic review in your hands. The paper feels heavier than its weight — a ledger of choices, a list of errors made visible. Your breath fogs the air for a second as you lift your chin; the room leans forward like a tide.

Asha sits at the table to your left, palms folded, eyes bright with a steady, quiet fury. Jonah is there too, his expression a practiced neutrality that doesn't reach his eyes. In the gallery, Ruben's cap is pulled low; Nadia sits with her knees tucked, face flushed. Cassian is across the room, jaw set like stone, knuckles white around a folded hand-painted flyer.

You begin. The microphone is warm under your palm.

Mira Kestrel: "This review is not an accusation built on rumor. It's a structural analysis of resonance behaviors the engineers dismissed as improbable. We tested models, we ran field harmonics, and… the data does not lie."

[A beat. The room exhales as if the word "data" were a small tidal wave.]

Jonah Hale: "Mira, you can't simply publish unvetted internal reports at a public hearing. These are preliminary—"

Mira Kestrel: "Preliminary does not mean harmless. The consortium's own simulations showed amplification at seasonal storm frequencies. They recalibrated the damping factors until the numbers looked clean. I couldn't—" (Your voice tightens.) "—I couldn't hand them a signature that would become a sentence for neighborhoods."

Jonah pauses; his professional composure falters just long enough that you see the man inside the suit. He tries to steer the room back.

Jonah Hale: "We are talking about millions invested, jobs that will be created. If you stop this now, you risk the town's economic recovery."

Mira Kestrel: "And if you do nothing, you risk it in a different way. A barrier with resonance issues isn't permanent safety—it's a slow-moving catastrophe. We either build something that learns, that adapts, or we give false certainty to people who can't afford another gamble."

Asha leans forward, flipping to a page of charts and pointing.

Asha: "We ran physical resonance tests in situ. The predicted modal frequencies match observed sea-state cycles. If unmitigated, constructive interference could—"

A rustle of disbelief; someone shouts from the gallery. Cassian's fist unclenches, then clenches again.

Cassian Rhys: (stepping forward, voice raw) "I planted those berms with you. I believed in the promise of jobs, in the promise of security. You could have worked from inside, Mira. Why push the town into uncertainty?"

You meet his look and carry the weight of the answer like a net full of fish.

Mira Kestrel: "Because inside felt like complicity. Because promises of safety that would cost lives if wrong—" (you swallow) "—felt worse than the uncertainty of the fight."

Cassian's face hardens, then softens as he listens to Asha's evidence. It's a slow recalibration — the same patience you teach seedlings when they don't root. The tension in the room is salt and steam.

[Visual: The moderator's gavel comes down; chatter rises and then hushes into a brittle hum. A reporter's voice calls for comment. Outside, a low rumble of distant thunder presses on the windows.]

You publish the review that week. The consortium's board convenes, and the investors, sensitive to risk and headlines, withdraw funding. Jonah's contract collapses like a tide-tableed map—edges frayed and money receding. He looks at you once, not with hatred but with a regret that is colder than anger.

Jonah Hale: "You did what you believe is right. We'll disagree on the method, Mira, but not on the urgency of the problem."

Mira Kestrel: "Urgency isn't a permission to ignore consequence."

He leaves town not as an exile but altered; the offer he once made to integrate you as a technical lead dissolves with his departure. The economic projections that had promised jobs and infrastructure shrink into a new, raw calculation: the town will have to find work in different ways.

[Scene: Lowry Bay Boardwalk | Morning After]
[Visual: Dawn is thin and hopeful; gulls move in hesitant circles. Fishermen and shopkeepers stand in small clusters on the boardwalk, coffee steaming in their hands. The mural on the school wall looks newly vivid in the morning light.]
[Music: A string quartet — gentle, ascending; the sound of small finds in the aftermath.]
[Sound: Lapping water, a distant hammer; a child's laugh from the docks.]

You walk the boardwalk, review folded in your jacket, the brass tidewatcher warm against your sternum. Reactions come in brief, jagged pieces: a woman who calls you "reckless" and a teenager who thanks you with wide, honest eyes; a vendor who worries about rent and another who promises to come help with the marsh planting.

Ruben meets you near the fruit stall, cane tapping a measured rhythm.

Ruben Ortega: (quietly) "I dreamed last night that my father stood on the pier beside me. He nodded, like the sea took his breath and gave him a new one. He said, 'You did right.'"

You don't expect absolution from memory, but Ruben's words land like a rescue line. You feel the knot of something in your chest loosen.

Mira Kestrel: "Did he tell you what to do next?"

Ruben Ortega: (a small, crooked smile) "No. He just told me to keep my hands moving."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Fold the review into your notebook and walk away") -> Reaction: "You slide the paper into your leather notebook. The corner of the review peeks out like a saved tide chart; you breathe, feeling a strange steadiness, and move toward the greenhouse to plan next week's plantings." || Choice B ("Stop and speak to the vendor who's angry") -> Reaction: "You turn back to the vendor, who bristles and then softens as you listen. You offer to organize a skills fair — temporary work through restoration projects — and he nods, surprised and a little hopeful."]

[Scene: Community Meeting at the Drowned Orchard | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: The orchard is a patchwork of raised mounds and tired lanterns. People sit on crates and makeshift benches. The light is warm, leaning toward gold. Bioluminescent algae flickers in the slow channels.]
[Music: Acoustic guitar, soft harmonies; voices layered like a choir of neighbors.]
[Sound: Conversation buzzing, the gentle creak of boardwalk ties.]

At the orchard meeting, voices ripple between anger and gratitude. Some are furious their anticipated wages are gone; others are quietly thankful that their homes won't be razed for a permanent wall. You listen more than you speak, cataloging grief and gratitude like shells.

Cassian finds you after the plenary, hands full of seed packets he was handing out earlier.

Cassian Rhys: (hesitant) "I was loud, Mira. I said things I shouldn't. I thought… I thought stability bought time for everything else. I thought losing that was losing us."

Mira Kestrel: (softly) "And did it keep what you loved safe?"

Cassian looks at the orchard, at the children's feet tapping in the wet grass, and the way the snack stall is still there, still painted with the same crooked smile.

Cassian Rhys: "No. It might not have. God, Mira, I was so scared. But when Mrs. Leung walked by this morning and started filling those jars again—" (his voice breaks into a laugh that surprises him) "—I saw what we were risking beyond the money. I was angry at first, but—" (he reaches for your hand, tentative) "—thank you for seeing that."

You let his fingers close around yours. The touch is not a solution; it is an agreement to keep standing and to keep trying. You talk late into the dusk about new projects: community-led retrofit workshops, a pilot for modular, adaptive barriers that can be tested publicly, a registry of labor skills to redirect the promised construction workforce into living shoreline projects.

Cassian Rhys: "We can start by rehiring those who were going to work on the barrier, train them to build wetlands and walkways. It won't be the same money, but it's honest. It fixes things that can be fixed."

Mira Kestrel: "And it buys time to make the bigger changes at a regional level. We need policy; we need accountability."

Cassian nods. His optimism is raw again, but real — a repaired net, not an untested sail.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Sketch a mural idea with Cassian for the community center") -> Reaction: "You grab one of Cassian's seed packets and doodle a simple design on its wrapper — marsh grasses and a lighthouse. He laughs, and together you plan a mural workshop for kids next week." || Choice B ("Volunteer to lead the first retrofit training session") -> Reaction: "You sign your name on the volunteer list. The feeling of purpose is immediate, the small certainty of work that keeps hands and spirits moving."]

[Scene: Old Northpoint Lighthouse | Dusk]
[Visual: The lighthouse perches on its jagged spit, orange oil lamp cutting a narrow, honest arc across the misting sea. The stone stairs echo your footsteps; the lantern room is small and warm with lamp light and a rack of old maps tacked to the wall.]
[Music: A single piano line, then a swell of strings into a hopeful major chord.]
[Sound: Wind knitting itself into the stones, the distant cry of a gull, the soft tick of the tide-watch mechanism.]

You climb alone. The salt-scented wind carries stories up the spiral steps. At the top, you set the forensic review on the table and let your hands rest on the weathered railing. The bay spreads beneath you, a map of everything you have tried to keep and everything you chose to change.

A quiet satisfaction settles into your ribs — not triumph, not relief that the fight is over, but a rightness that hums like a low tide. You think of the neighborhoods that will stand because of what you did, of the orchard's stilts that didn't have to be torn out, of the children who will not learn the sound of forced evictions as part of their geography.

Ruben's words echo: You did right.

You remember the cost — the jobs that will be reimagined, the offers lost, the anger that will linger in some pockets of the town — and you fit it all into a ledger that also holds the long arc forward: new hearings for accountable infrastructure, regional policymakers calling for transparent peer review, community-led pilots that anchor hope in soil and muscle.

You run your thumb along the brass tidewatcher, feeling the grooves worn by your life here. The sea will always ask hard things of you; tonight you answered. It does not feel like victory in the way a ribbon feels like victory, but it is steadier: the sound of a repair that holds.

A small, wind-bleached laugh leaves you, not bitter but airy, like the release of a held breath. You stand there until the light thins and the horizon becomes a suggestion rather than a line.

[Visual: The lantern dims as dusk becomes night; the lighthouse's beam slows to its familiar cadence.]
[Music: The piano resolves on a warm, ascending chord; strings breathe a hopeful harmony and then fall to a gentle hush.]
[Sound: Quiet ocean, the distant murmur of the town settling into the night.]

You turn the tidewatcher over and over in your palm, a small, private ritual. You are not rich in the way the barrier promised riches. You are richer in something that steadies the town's future: accountable processes, community agency, and the knowledge that you chose the harder kindness.

Ruben's simple sentence — "You did right" — is not an endpoint. It is an instruction to keep tending.

You look out once more, chest quiet and firm, and step down from the lantern room into the dark that feels less empty now.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Fade Out]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}