[Scene: City Hall Glass Atrium | Afternoon]
[Visual: Wide shot of the atrium — high glass, blinds half-drawn; tide-forecast screens glow in the background. People cluster in tight groups along the polished concrete.]
[Music: Low, hollow piano undercurrent]
[Sound: Distant murmurs, the faint clack of high heels on tile, an HVAC whoosh that feels too loud for the quiet]

You taste copper and old coffee in the air. The hybrid plan you announced in the hearing still hums behind your teeth like a rehearsed prayer. You feel it as an after-image — the way the microphone warmed your lips, Rosa’s hand squeezing yours, Elias’s wristband blinking a cool green in the crowd. The city has the proposal in its throat; now the work is grinding into it, the edges sharp and uncompromising.

Mara Kestrel: "We ask for targeted barriers where they buy time and living breakwaters where the ecology and community can steward the regrowth. Third‑party audits. A co‑management board with residents on equal footing."

Jun Park leans forward from the opposite side of the conference table, his amber eyes bright against the clinical blue of the tide projections. He folds and unfolds an architect's ruler with deliberate fingers.

Jun Park: "Equal footing sounds fair until you have to ship materials in during a storm or secure liability insurance. The city can't be held hostage to good intentions if it means system failure."

You hear the steel in his voice, and the room tightens. Lian Mor's expression is newspaper-flat; a screen next to her lists budgets and deadlines in small, implacable numerals. Somewhere behind the glass a gull protests.

Lian Mor: "Budgets, timelines, and procurement windows. Who pays for the audits? Who guarantees continuity when supply chains fail? We need deliverables we can sign off on."

You breathe, and the salt on your scarf scratches your neck like an old map. Your chest remembers your father's hands on the boat's tiller. You are both ledger and salt; now you are being asked to make them tally.

Elias Navin stands close enough that you can smell the algae tang of his parka. His voice lowers when he speaks, precise but threaded with a fatigue you recognize.

Elias Navin: "Living systems take time to mature. The reefs won't be full wave-breakers overnight. We can stage deployments—pilot cells, then scale—paired with engineered berms in critical transit corridors. But we cannot promise immediate shelter against a category-three event."

You want to say everything at once — the moral ledger that says people in the Basin deserve more than a promise of future coral; the practical ledger that says Jun's schedule might deliver rock yesterday. Instead, you let silence gather until it becomes its own argument.

Rosa Alvarez meets your eyes across the table, and for a second the atrium falls away. Her voice carries the small, patient cadence of someone who has counted tides and births and funerals in the same breath.

Rosa Alvarez: "We ask for safeguards for those who will be moved or altered by this plan. Audits are not just numbers. Audits must measure loss and dignity."

Jun's jaw tightens but he does not dismiss her. He is careful like a man who has rehearsed compromise until it creaks.

Jun Park: "Then we build the oversight into the contract. We embed audit triggers, escrow funds, performance-based release. If the living reefs underperform, the engineered measures compensate."

You note the word "compensate" and its polite brutality. Your throat tightens.

Mara Kestrel: "And community representation on the board. No token seats — rotating, binding veto for displacement decisions. We are not 'stakeholders' in some abstract sense; we are people with places and stories."

Jun Park: (soft) "You always were hard to argue with."

He says it like an uneasy compliment. The meeting folds inward, negotiations bending at the places where trust ought to be.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Jun to sign a public pledge now") -> Reaction: "You push your chair forward and demand a visible commitment. Jun’s smile hardens into a professional mask, but he doesn’t refuse completely; he promises a written clause to be drafted by the end of week." || Choice B ("Save the pressure for the legal draft") -> Reaction: "You keep your hand in your lap. The air between you and Jun cools; the clerk scribbles notes. Elias gives you a small, approving nod — evidence before optics." ]

The choices are theater and strategy in equal measure. You take the one that feels less like a flourish and more like armor, because you have learned the cost of promises that live only in speeches.

[Scene: Salted Rooftop Garden (Sky-Farm) | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Mist in the glasshouse; rays of slanted sun pick out droplets on halophyte leaves. A wooden bench — paint flaking — faces the city skyline damp with sea-sheen.]
[Music: Single cello note, drawn long]
[Sound: Soft drip of desalination tubes; distant gulls; a tinny municipal alert on a phone]

The rooftop smells of wet soil and something sweetly mineral — the desalinate feed running through clay pots. Ivy moves between beds, eyelashes speckled with soil, tucking a stray vine into a trellis. She looks at you with a look that asks if hope is a pantomime we all keep performing.

Ivy: "You did good today. People are still talking about the co‑management idea. They like the picture of hands in the mud."

You laugh because it hurts to be sentimental and political at once.

Mara Kestrel: "Talk is cheap, I know. We need more than hands. We need materials, training, and—" Your voice trips. Responsibility sits like a stone in your palms. "—a way to keep people safe while the reefs grow."

Elias leans against a reclaimed timber planter, watching the water bead on a leaf. He always looks at biological systems the way others look at a map — measuring patience in time intervals.

Elias Navin: "We can train a local corps to seed and tend the reefs. Theo will set up remote monitors. But we need supply chains for native spawn, clean substrate, and fast to the point where perishable materials are concerned."

You watch the curve of his mouth when he says 'we' and feel the tug of something stranger than shared plans — the small gravitational pull of someone who stays.

Mara Kestrel: "Will you stay for that 'we' or do you mean you will stay for the pilot and then go wherever grants take you?"

Elias meets your gaze, and his eyes — for once unguarded — look like weathered glass.

Elias Navin: (after a pause) "I want to stay. I don't know if that makes me reliable in your ledger. I only know I do the work differently when I can see the people who will live with it."

Your throat warms. The moment could bend into softness, but the roof keeps its eyes on the city: the glass across from you reflecting unreadable tide numbers.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Elias to promise publicly to stay") -> Reaction: "You press the point, needing the anchor. Elias looks away, fingers plucking a dead leaf. He gives you a small, wry smile and says, 'I will build with you — privately, not as a campaign line.'"] || Choice B ("Keep the discussion technical and focus on logistics") -> Reaction: "You steer the conversation back to manifests and monitoring. Elias nods, relief shading his face; he offers streamlining options and cargo routes instead of vows."]

You choose the tact that keeps his hands busy and your heart marginally steadier. Hope here is scaffolding; you can only hope the scaffold holds.

[Scene: The Basin (Community Floodplain Garden) | Early Evening]
[Visual: Muddy paths and scavenged art, the light gone soft and gray after a passing storm. Community members cluster beneath tarps and string-lights; the mangrove saplings bob in shallow puddles.]
[Music: Low percussion, a heartbeat under the voices]
[Sound: Voices overlapping, a distant leak, children kicking at ripples]

The Basin smells of wet metal and cut grass. People come to the Basin for repair and for reckoning. Rosa stands at the center, shawl tucked tight, and the air tightens when she speaks.

Rosa Alvarez: "What you ask us to do is not only physical labor. It is a reimagining of who gets to stay and who must leave. Audits that count losses as numbers will never capture the hollow places in our kitchens."

A man you know from the co-op — callused hands, worried eyes — points at the pile of crated materials near the community shed.

Co-op Member: "Where's the substrate delivery? It was supposed to be here this morning. The truck never came."

A murmur passes like a current. Ivy moves through the crowd, quiet but swift, checking manifest sheets on a water-streaked tablet.

Ivy: "Supply's delayed, says the tracker. Someone patched the GPS feed this morning. Theo's on it, but—"

A woman near you spits the last word like a warning: "Sabotage? Who benefits from leaving us with empty hands?"

You feel the room pivot toward something harder. The idea of sabotage smells like cold concrete and motive; it tastes like the small cruelty of systems under pressure. You listen to the allegations and feel the ledger tilt.

Mara Kestrel: "We don't answer accusations without evidence. Panic will fracture the board before we even get to the audit clauses. Let Theo and Elias check the manifests. We'll hold the meeting for the co-management board, but we maintain orderly records."

Someone laughs, a brittle sound.

Community Member: "Orderly records won't plug the holes in our roofs, Mara."

Rosa's voice cuts through the flaring anger like an old bell.

Rosa Alvarez: "We do not stoke fear into our neighbors. We gather facts and we act with care. But do not pretend the possibility of sabotage does not exist."

You know she is right: both things can be true. But facts require time. The Basin's people require answers now.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Tell the crowd you will pause deployments until the chain is secure") -> Reaction: "You promise to halt new planting until Theo can verify manifests. Relief ripples, but so does anger — some will see this as surrendering momentum." || Choice B ("Assure them you'll keep going regardless and double community patrols") -> Reaction: "You vow to push forward and protect materials with volunteer watches. The crowd roars with a rough hope, but you taste the danger in that bravado."]

You choose the narrow path: you promise verification first. It feels like a retreat and a necessary one. Every day you spend shoring up trust is a day someone might say you delayed salvation.

[Scene: Tideworks Lab (Makeshift Field Lab) | Night]
[Visual: Container lab lit by warm lamps and bioluminescent tanks; scattered notes, jars of samples, a humming server rack.]
[Music: Tense electronics, a low synth pulse]
[Sound: The soft beep of monitors, the distant slap of waves, Theo's fingers on a keyboard]

Inside the lab, the tang of seawater is stronger, mixed with solder and hot plastic. Theo taps at three windows, each graphing a different sensor feed. The green lines quiver like breath.

Theo Mendes: "Someone clipped the manifest timestamps and injected false GPS pings. The route was re-routed through an industrial yard that has no authorization. Also, look at this—" he flicks a log up on the screen, "—the backup telemetry was wiped twice in the afternoon."

Elias watches the logs, jaw working. He pulls his glasses down and the lamplight catches the brass of his mentor's watch.

Elias Navin: "This is deliberate. Whoever did it knew how to mask delivery signatures and erase redundancies. It's not a random failure. This is targeted."

You trace the edges of the evidence with a fingertip that wants more than the map. The notion of a targeted campaign to derail community-led work lands like a heavy stone.

Mara Kestrel: "Who would benefit?"

Theo shrugs, a small, impatient shrug that breaks into a sharper edge.

Theo Mendes: "There are contractors lined up for Jun's engineered walls. There are procurement vendors who'd lose a lot if living reefs diverted funds and labor. It could be political actors, profiteers, or—" He stops, meeting your eyes. "—maybe someone trying to keep the community off the water."

Jun Park's name is a shape in the static — ambiguous, subject to interpretation. You cannot point without proof. You picture the council chambers, Jun's measured face, the city press clinging to headlines.

Elias Navin: "We need chain-of-custody records and traceable receipts. If we go public with accusations without the thread, we risk making ourselves appear paranoid and incompetent. But if we hide the problem, the sabotage continues."

You feel the argument like a split wind: transparency could galvanize support or invite panic; secrecy could allow attacks to keep happening. Your chest tightens with the weight of consequence.

Mara Kestrel: "We gather proof. We secure what's left. We inform our board — Rosa, Ivy — and we request a private audit of council procurement. Publicly, we say only that there are 'logistical delays due to technical interference' and that we're investigating."

Elias's hand finds yours across the cluttered bench, warm and steady. He doesn't speak; he has no polished speech for the way fear and duty mix in your chest. He squeezes, just enough to be real.

You pull back and see the lab's window: the harbor beyond a black smear, lights like distant bioluminescence. The city feels smaller and more fragile than ever.

[Music: A single dissonant chord lingers, then quiet]
[Sound: Offshore waves, a faint emergency siren in the distance]

You sleep badly that night, with the lab's fluorescent afterimage ringing in your skull. The word "sabotage" spins in every alley conversation you eavesdrop on the way back through the Strand: a rumor, a hazard, a weapon. Trust — already a brittle thing — begins to splinter in place.

You stand at the edge of the harbor the next morning, pendant cold against your sternum. The harbor is gray under low clouds, the line between water and sky a soft, dissolving seam. You press your palm to your journal, feeling the damp give of pages and the weight of other people's stories. The hybrid plan that once sounded like a bridge now resembles a narrow causeway over quickmud: every step is an act of balance.

You are the ledger and the salt. The ledger wants documentation and proof. The salt wants honesty and care. You know the next move will force you to choose which to favor for the community's immediate safety and long-term dignity.

[Visual: Close-up on your compass pendant; the sea in the background looking indifferent]
[Music: Minor chord that descends and holds — unresolved]
[Sound: A distant crack of a radio transmission, then static]

You look up at the city skyline, at Jun Park's office lit with late work, at the faint glow of the Tideworks Lab flash­ing on a mapped screen in your head. There is no clean answer; there is only movement forward, and the knowledge that the act of moving will bruise someone.

A page-turn hovers in the air, heavy and inevitable.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 11
}