[Scene: City Hall Glass Atrium | Afternoon]
[Visual: The atrium's high glass walls, streaked with salt and rain; screens show tide forecasts and budget tallies.]
[Music: Low, somber strings; a distant city siren folded into the harmony]
[Sound: Muffled murmur of the crowd; the sharp tick of a municipal clock]

You step into the atrium and the air closes around you like a wet shawl — the scent of cheap coffee, damp wool, and the mineral tang of seawater that has worked its way up into the city’s bones. Every surface reflects light in thin, clinical bands; screens blink numbers in blue, cold and unblinking. A man in a suit at the entrance checks a list and glances at you with the indifferent civility of someone whose job is to move bodies through procedure.

Your tablet hums in your pocket — the projection feed you tucked away earlier lives there, a scrolling transcript of Jun’s planning brief already annotated by outraged citizens and skeptical reporters. The words press against your ribs like pebbles: prioritization, sacrifice zones, immediate resource deployment. You can feel the ledger in your hands even when it's folded away.

Rosa is seated near the front, shawls folded around her like armor. Ivy bounces a knee under the bench, paint smudged on her overalls, watching the room with frank, aching hope. Elias stands by a pillar, his parka zipped tight, hands folded over the faint green pulse of his wristband. He looks at you and there is a distance — not cold, exactly, but measured. You wonder if he counts the room the same way you do: as a map of people whose lives can be scored in probabilities and moral debts.

People are already speaking when you settle. Jun’s voice carries across the atrium with the practiced ease of someone used to bringing the future into focus for others. He smiles; the amber of his eyes glints like a lighthouse lamp. Lian Mor sits at the mayoral dais, face like a polished slate, and takes notes in an even hand.

Jun: "We don't have the luxury of waiting for perfect certainty. The city's resilience depends on decisive action. Managed retreat, targeted barriers—these are not surrender; they are investment."

You taste iron and salt as the words fold into the room. There are heads nodding; there are faces knitted. The phrase "managed retreat" is an accusation disguised as technical language. You remember your father's hands on frayed ropes and the way the harbor smelled that night: diesel and rain and a sweetness of seaweed.

Elias steps forward when the floor opens, his voice quieter but steady, like tidal data that insists on being read correctly.

Elias: "Living breakwaters don't replace infrastructure. They change the equation. We can reduce wave energy and restore habitat incrementally—trial, observe, scale. It's not romance; it's iteration."

Jun's jaw tenses at the word "trial." He straightens, and his smile becomes a tool.

Jun: "Trials are experiments on people's livelihoods. We need guaranteed protection for neighborhoods that are already at risk. We can't outsource risk to hope."

A murmur runs through the audience. You feel the heat on your collar from too many eyes. Your journal is a weight against your sternum; the compass pendant catches the light and feels like a slow heartbeat.

You rise and a hush leans into the space like an incoming tide. You thought about rehearsing everything a thousand times, but the rehearsed lines feel brittle against the salt-air reality. This is not a debate about ideologies in abstract; this is about specific roofs, specific nets, specific children's rooms that leak when storms hit.

Mara Kestrel (you): "We owe people choices that don't read like ultimatums. We owe them the chance to keep their livelihoods while we stop the water from taking everything. I'm asking the council to consider not only models on a spreadsheet but the people who'll sign those models with their names."

Jun: (leaning forward) "And if your 'people' are wrong and the reef fails? Whose names are on that ledger then?"

You feel Elias close enough to smell the algae in his collar. His voice tightens.

Elias: "You can't treat ecological adaptation like a bet you only make when the odds are certain. We have data; we have prototypes. If we combine them with strategic hard points, we lower the exposure across the board."

Jun: (cold smile) "Strategic hard points mean sacrificing some zones to save the rest. It's math. It's triage."

Rosa: (softly, to you) "Numbers can be a cloak for pain. Don't let them dress this room in only what they can count."

The room shifts. Lian raises an eyebrow and taps her pen — the procedural drumbeat that will turn rhetoric into ordinance. You sense the moment they will ask you to place your public weight: a single statement, a single endorsement that will be replayed and reinterpreted.

The press leans forward. A child in the front row plays with a salvaged buoy chain, the metal clinks like a distant bell. You think about Ivy — the stubborn paint on her hands, the murals she wants to keep from being erased by budgets — and you feel the gravity of the choice pull at the seams of your resolve.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Take a breath and step to the podium with a steady, formal statement") -> Reaction: "You straighten, press your palm into the worn leather of your journal to steady yourself, and speak into the microphone with the force of someone who has learned to carry other people's weight." || Choice B ("Move closer to Elias and speak quietly—exchange a few words before you decide") -> Reaction: "You slide toward Elias, the crowd's noise a softened roar, and you murmur the version of your speech you're saving for the moment when you know whether you'll ask him to risk his work for the city's approval."] 

(If the player chose to move closer, Elias's response:)
Elias: (whispering) "If you go public for the reefs without a clear deployment plan, they'll call it naive. If you wait, they'll call you obstructive. I don't want you to carry blame alone, Mara."

Mara Kestrel (you): "I don't want to make a decision that burns anyone. But I also can't promise safety where I know only uncertainty."

Elias: "Then make them share the ledger. Demand shared audits and a real rollback plan if the trials fail."

Jun hears the whisper and cuts in across the floor like wind across glass.

Jun: "Shared audits are delays dressed as diplomacy. The tide doesn't respect committees. We need commitments now."

Lian: (sharp) "We can put processes in place, but council needs a direction to allocate funds. Miss Kestrel, will you state your position for the record?"

Your pulse hammers in your ears. The atrium feels smaller, the glass walls clearer; outside, rain runs down the panes in fingers. The weight of promises and the fear of betrayal settle together in your chest.

Rosa squeezes your hand when you hesitate. Her eyes are not pleading; they are remembering. Ivy's foot taps a fierce little rhythm: impatient, hopeful, unforgiving.

Another murmur, more targeted: murmurs of neighbors worrying about their boats, their gardens, their children's schools. Someone in the crowd begins an earnest chant for "community control," and it's answered by a small, sharp shout of "safety first."

You want to do both; the ways you are both stubborn and generous twist inside your ribcage. You are balancing a ledger that refuses to be neat.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Acknowledge Jun's need for immediacy, then insist on binding safeguards") -> Reaction: "You turn to Jun and speak loud enough for cameras to pick up, promising to work within an emergency plan but only with mandated community oversight and trigger clauses for rollback." || Choice B ("Reject the emergency plan outright and champion Elias's living breakwaters") -> Reaction: "You open your mouth and let the conviction that's grown in basements and boat hulls fill the room; you vote for the reefs and invite scrutiny and risk with your own name attached." || Choice C ("Offer a compromise on the spot—call for a hybrid that pools municipal funding to protect hotspots while launching reef trials in parallel") -> Reaction: "Your voice tightens on the words 'hybrid' and 'shared oversight.' The word feels like both balm and fuse — neither side is satisfied, but the possibility of less harm trembles in the air."]

Jun: (a slow, dangerous smile) "Compromise sounds noble when there is time. In crises, it is often an excuse for paralysis."

Elias: (voice gone thin for a heartbeat) "Paralysis kills people, Jun. So does hubris."

Jun: "This isn’t hubris; it's responsibility. Someone has to make the hard calls."

Mara Kestrel (you): "Someone has to make humane calls, too. Someone has to remember the faces behind the graphs."

Lian: "We're past speeches. The council will record you now, Miss Kestrel. Your position will be taken as an endorsement or a refusal. We need clarity for the budget vote."

You breathe. Air tastes of copper and rain. The journal at your chest is both ledger and lifeline. You imagine the harbor at dawn, nets drying, your father's hands—half memory, half accusation—folding a line back into the cleat. You feel small and exact and unbearably visible.

Jun's gaze finds you and widens in a way that is almost private — a look that could be read as disappointment or calculation. Elias watches you with the kind of attention that catalogues weather patterns: patient, technical, with a wash of fear underneath. Rosa's expression is a map of centuries and survival; Ivy looks like the whole town compacted into a single stubborn set of shoulders.

The room waits like a low cloud about to break.

Mara Kestrel (you): (internal) You have rehearsed every phrasing you can imagine. You have imagined the headlines and the whispered condemnations, the long sighs of relief, the bitter mornings with empty docks. None of it makes the choice less sharp.

A council clerk clears their throat, and the microphone seems to hum with consequence. Cameras tilt in. The recorded line will be replayed in committee rooms and living rooms; your words will become infrastructure in a way you cannot control.

[Visual: Close-up on the microphone; the atrium's glass blurs into rain streaks.]
[Sound: A single drop falls onto the ledger of your thoughts.]

You step forward, or you hold back; the motion finishes in your bones.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "I must choose how to cast my public weight at the hearing—allegiance, compliance, or compromise.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We go with the living breakwaters—community science and adaptation.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "I support Jun’s municipal emergency plan and will cooperate.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We propose a negotiated hybrid: targeted barriers plus community-led living reefs with shared oversight.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}