[Scene: Harrow Hall | Evening]
[Visual: The town hall's high windows hold the last of the day's pink light; inside, brass lamps throw warm cones over polished oak. Patches of rainwater darken the stone steps outside.]
[Music: A soft, rising string motif — hopeful, deliberate]
[Sound: Muffled conversation. The scrape of chairs. An occasional cough. The distant, steady toll of the harbor bell.]

You walk up the worn marble steps with your notebook under your arm and the compass at your hip. Your palms are a little damp from the jacket you tugged tighter against the chill; the braided cord around your wrist feels like an anchor you can find with your eyes closed. Tonight's run-through fits into the rhythm you live by: explain the problem, show the evidence, offer a pathway that doesn't ask people to become strangers to themselves.

Inside, the chamber smells of beeswax and old paper, the familiar perfume of place that has held hard conversations for generations. Rows are filling: fishermen with sunburned necks, mothers with children who fidget at the edges, volunteers in muddy boots. There's a small cluster near the front where Leyna is tapping a tablet and Ronan is rearranging printed graphs like a child organizing trading cards.

Ivo is there: sleeves rolled, vest slung over the back of his chair, hands white with effort marks that look like a map of the last season's storms. He lifts his head when you approach and gives you a look that is almost a smile — an agreement sealed without words.

Ivo Calder: "You look like someone who hasn't yet decided whether to charm them or scare them straight."

You let a breath out where a laugh could be and drop into the seat beside him. His scent — diesel, warm coffee — settles in the space between your shoulder and the shoulder of your coat. You can hear Leyna's low voice confirming the final slide transitions; somewhere in the room, Maya is whispering last-minute reassurances to an anxious neighbor.

Maya: "We'll be steady. You've taught us how to explain it without drowning folks in jargon."

There is a hum of small kindnesses that steadies you. It matters. It lifts the day into something that feels less like surviving and more like building.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Smooth the notebook cover, checking the first page") -> Reaction: "You run a thumb along the first underlined line — 'Seed — Measure — Teach — Protect' — and feel the promise steady under your skin." || Choice B ("Stand, practice your opening line aloud under your breath") -> Reaction: "You mouth the first sentence once, feel the cadence, and imagine the room leaning in when you land on the word 'protect.'"]

[Visual: The council locksmiths dim the overheads. A single spotlight finds the lectern.]
[Sound: Chairs settle; the whispering fades to a patient hush.]

Celine Harrow enters with measured steps, a coat that drips just enough to show she came prepared, a dossier closed on her arm. She sits at the head of the table with the ease of someone who understands ceremony and how it shapes consent.

Celine Harrow: "Good evening, everyone. We've got a long docket, but the item we heard flagged as urgent — shoreline protections and immediate town safety — is the one we'll take first. I hope we can keep our focus on practicalities."

Her voice is even. There's polish, yes, but also a kind of efficiency that reads as compassion in some seats and as liability in others. You watch the room translate her tone into suspicion or relief depending on people's needs.

Dr. Leyna Ortiz leans in, the glow of the tablet catching in her glasses. She speaks with the steady cadence of someone who wants you to understand the map before you choose the road.

Dr. Leyna Ortiz: "We projected three scenarios for the next decade. Immediate armoring plus shelters; municipal-scale engineered defenses; or phased ecological restoration with targeted temporary protections. Each has a different timeline and a different budget. I'm prepared to walk the council through the confidence intervals and the contingencies."

You feel Leyna's eyes on you, querying whether you'll let her take the technical floor or whether you'll thread the data through the town's stories yourself.

Ivo folds his hands and leans forward, a practical tilt to his chin.

Ivo Calder: "People need to see that we're protecting homes this year. If we can't protect harvests and waking rooms now, trust evaporates — and then the plan, whatever it is, goes with it."

He looks to you as if the room's faith were a physical thing he could pass to you. His argument is simple and immediate; it smells like rope and salt and the tangible things men and women can fix with bare hands.

You breathe, letting the salt-pressed logic settle in your chest. The scientist's part of you wants to clarify probabilities; the daughter-of-this-place part of you wants to say yes to anything that buys neighbors time. Both are true. Both need to be honored.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Cite Leyna's most compelling data — the one showing short-term risk reduction") -> Reaction: "You slide a hand to the tablet Leyna offers, point to the curve that dips when temporary defenses are deployed, and the room leans a fraction, interest sharpening." || Choice B ("Tell a quick, human story about Mara's fish shack and last winter") -> Reaction: "You speak of Mara's shack with the small, specific details — the way she pins nets to the rafters — and several faces in the room look up as if you've named someone they know. The abstract becomes immediate."]

The council hears both numbers and names. Celine listens with the expression you have learned to read as unreadable: an assessing calm that keeps her real intentions folded inside. You can't be sure whether she will prioritize political leverage or real, long-term stewardship — and you do not need to. You need to shape the question for the town.

Celine Harrow: "This is not merely a scientific question. It's economic: jobs, investment, insurance. I believe we can secure municipal bonds and a matching fund from external partners to move faster. But I won't pretend those deals are without conditions."

There is the faintest pause, a small intake of breath in the room, the sound of futures being weighed.

You climb the steps to the lectern with the weight of the room in your spine. Your voice — your actual voice — feels steadier than the tremor in your hands.

Alys Maren: "We have three paths with overlapping consequences. One protects homes now in a visible way. One buys scale with money that has strings. One rebuilds the shore so protection becomes part of the living system. Each path saves something and risks something else."

You let that sit, watch faces map onto the sentence. Some are relieved by the clarity; others tighten, wanting a single rescue to be spelled out.

Celine Harrow: "And which path do you recommend, Doctor Maren? The council—and this town—is asking for your voice."

The question lands like a bell. For a moment the past is a fog you don't need to name; the future is a horizon that wants a hand on its rim. The town's eyes are on you because you told them the facts; you promised to turn facts into options.

You feel a hand touch your elbow — Maya, grounding. She doesn't look at the mayor; she looks at you and gives you a small, fierce smile.

Maya: "Say what you need. We'll back it."

Multi-turn conversation follows, not short exchanges but a threaded debate where everyone nudges, prods, and softens. You and Ivo trade the kind of arguments you've practiced in the greenhouse but now feel weightier because they carry neighbors' memories.

Ivo Calder: "If we spend months waiting for bonds and paperwork, people's roofs will leak and their confidence will too. We can build barriers and shelters that buy us time to do the restoration right."

Alys Maren: "Ivo, I agree we need to buy time. My worry is that if the barriers become the plan, we never scale the restoration that actually reduces wave energy at source. We need to do both, but—"

Celine Harrow (interrupting smoothly): "Both costs double, Doctor Maren. That's the reality. We can stretch the budget either way, but we can't make it infinite."

The room hums; debate opens like a tide. Leyna interjects with strategic calm.

Dr. Leyna Ortiz: "We're not asking for idealism in a vacuum. We can design a hybrid implementation: immediate temporary measures informed by ecological models that don't preclude restoration. If we sequence the work cleverly, we reduce risk now and preserve ecological pathways later."

There is a murmur that could be read as approval. You catch Ivo's gaze: a flash of hope, then calculation. There's friction — the practical man wanting ladders and sandbags now, the scientist wanting to guard the longer arc — but there's also the possibility of dovetailing.

You feel the room shifting toward possibility. That tilt — that sense of a plan forming that could honor multiple truths — lifts something tight inside you, a quiet hope that the town's intelligence and compassion might outmatch fear.

After the formal debate, as the council takes public input and the clock stretches thin, a woman from the back stands and says, voice raw: "I don't want my grandchildren to grow up knowing only seawalls. I want them to know this place. Fix the shore or fix the town's heart, but please, don't make us choose between them like it's either-or."

Her words land like a hand on the table. They are both plea and compass.

[Sound: A tentative applause starts and spreads, not a roar but a ripple of agreement.]

The evening winds down to procedural votes about immediate allocations and scheduling. Celine dips into the practicalities of bond language; Leyna offers to post the full models publicly; Ivo organizes volunteers to start a series of rapid-response trainings. None of it resolves everything, but each motion is a stitch.

When the council formally asks for your recommendation, the weight in your chest is not panic. It is responsibility braided with relief: the town has asked, the town has listened, the town is not inert.

Ivo finds you at the edge of the platform as people file out, his hands full of a pair of work gloves and a map smudged with fingerprints. He presses the gloves into your palm like an offering.

Ivo Calder: "Come with me after this. We can lay out the first run for the barriers and shelters. If you say the word, I'll call Ronan and the crew tonight."

You take the gloves. They smell of oil and wet rope and the faint citrus of a hand cleaner he favors. You imagine the work: sweating in the damp light, neighbors forming human chains, something physical and immediate being moved into place.

Your internal monologue unspools like rope: you think of the seedlings in the greenhouse, the slow stubbornness of seagrass rooting in shifting sand; you think of a child's laugh on North Beach Ridge last summer and of Oba murmuring about old tidal markers. You know the restoration path can save more in the long run. You know the immediate actions can stop a loss that would hollow the town today.

You also know you don't have to choose tomorrow between hearts and charts; you only have to recommend a path tonight.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Promise to lead the immediate volunteer effort with Ivo") -> Reaction: "The word forms easy on your tongue, and you see Ivo's shoulders drop a little with relief. It tastes like salt and commitment." || Choice B ("Recommend a staged hybrid plan with Leyna's models guiding immediate actions") -> Reaction: "You describe a sequence — immediate protective steps that are paired with clearly specified restoration milestones — and Leyna's face opens with something like professional pride and hope. The room listens, interested in the scaffolding of it."]

Maya squeezes your hand, her knuckles warm and sure.

Maya: "No matter what you say, we'll bend our backs to it. But we want to know we won't be leaving nature behind."

Your answer hangs there, luminous and heavy. The hall waits. Outside, past the high windows, the sea is a dark plane with a band of light along the horizon, like a promise the weather can't quite swallow.

You step forward to where the council expects a single line, a guiding voice, a moral and practical compass. The chamber light narrows and focuses; in that pool you can see the faces of the town reflected — not as opponents but as people who will live with the consequence of your words.

You inhale. You consider the three futures laid before them and, through them, the three ways you might lead.

[Visual: Tight close-up on your hands on the lectern; the brass compass glints faintly in the lamp light]
[Music: A soft, swelling chord that holds — not final, but full of possibility]
[Sound: The harbor bell in the distance, steady as a heartbeat]

You are asked, plainly, to choose the path Saltwick will take next.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How do I lead Saltwick now?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Rally with Ivo — build immediate defenses and shelters.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Take Celine's offer — secure municipal funding for rapid infrastructure.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Double down on the scientific restoration plan with Dr. Leyna.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}