[Scene: Tideworks Lab | Pre-Dawn]
[Visual: The shipping container's corrugated metal skin is slick with salt spray; a single task lamp throws a pool of warm yellow over jars and charts.]
[Music: Low, persistent rumble — a minor-key cello under static wind noise.]
[Sound: Distant surf. The tide thumps against pilings like a tired heartbeat.]

You stand with your palm on the cold edge of the workbench, fingers leaving a salt-smudged print on the laminated schematic. The lab smells of wet canvas, algae, threadbare coffee, and the faint, sweet rot of seaweed pressed in your journal pocket. Outside, wind scours the harbor; the sky is a lead wash that blurs the horizon. Theo's flashlight bobbles like a small, anxious thing as he checks fasteners.

Theo: "Anchors one through four look good on paper, but the shear pins are worn. We're replacing as we can." (He keeps his voice light, like a surgeon trying to make the room less clinical.)

You listen, cataloguing everything the way you've learned to do since the storms — the creak of a line, the staccato of rivets, the way Elias' sleeve trembles when he reaches for something he cannot fix with data. His wristband pulses a steady green against his forearm, a metronome for practical hope.

Elias: "We can reinforce the modular joints with supplemental clamps. It slows deployment, but it reduces the load transfer during high swell." (He meets your eyes, searching for permission and for the human translation of his calculations.)

You can see the meeting in your head: the funders' deadline, Lena's clipped tone over the radio, the council's faces in fluorescent light. You also see Rosa's note in your pocket — Honor it — and the ghost of your father's boat listing in the last storm. The ledger keeps humming at the edge of your awareness; every adjustment reads in people.

You breathe and decide.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Hand Theo the spare clamps") -> Reaction: "You shove the extra clamps across the table. Theo grins a flash of relief and moves with faster, more certain hands." || Choice B ("Tell Elias to delay deployment for full retrofits") -> Reaction: "Elias's jaw tightens. He nods once, slow, like iron bending. He starts drafting a revised schedule, but you hear Lena's voice in the radio again, impatient and thin."]

[Visual: Tight close-up on your compass pendant, copper dulled, its needle trembling like a small animal in your palm.]

You choose and act — not because one option tastes right and the other wrong, but because doing something is how the town has always answered storms: with hands and rope. The harbor answers with water.

[Scene: Harbor Quay — Outside the Strand | Pre-Dawn Turning Toward Storm]
[Visual: Boards slick with brine; the reef modules bobging offshore like sleeping whales tied to thin ropes. The sky is bruised indigo.]
[Sound: Cables whining. The harbor is a chorus of small panics.]

Volunteers arrive in clusters, faces half-shorn by the wind, scarves whipping. Ivy's paint-streaked overalls are plastered with rain; she moves like she has no time to be afraid. You call her name and the sound is thin and brittle against the storm.

You give last instructions; your voice sounds steady until it doesn't. People lean on you — not because you are unshakable, but because you were the one who raised the rope when no one else did.

Volunteer 1: "We can winch them in tighter—reduce yaw if the swell picks up."

Volunteer 2: "We need eyes on the northern mooring. If it lets, the whole line goes."

Elias: "Watch the strain gauges. If tension spikes, release the outer modules to reduce shear."

You shout, point, order, and then, impossibly, feel something unfamiliar: the loosened idea that something else is in control. You taste iron and the bitter of too-strong coffee.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Hold the line with the other volunteers") -> Reaction: "You wrap your hands around wet rope. The fibers bite into your palms. Someone behind you mutters, 'Harder' and you pull until your shoulders burn." || Choice B ("Run to the northern mooring to check the anchor yourself") -> Reaction: "You run, the boards throwing up spray. The mooring is a betrayal: pins half-worn, a bracket slotted. You kick at the mud, trying to buy seconds."]

[Sound: A groan, a metallic scream. The northern mooring shudders like a giant inhaling.]

Waves that began as promise break teeth-first on the reef. Rain cuts the air in sheets. Theo's shout is ripped away by the wind. The sound of anchors failing is not cinematic — it is small mercies collapsing into a single, unignorable failure: a pin shears, a clamp snaps, and then the string of modules becomes a ragged thing, an animal freed too late.

Elias is already on the outer platform, hands white where he grips, the sensor wristband pulsing an alarm. He grabs a rope as one module slews past—a wave lifts it like a child's toy—and for a moment you see everything you ever tried to quantify slip into the dark mouth of the sea.

You try to order an evacuation. People run, slip, catch hands. A volunteer, someone who smiled at you last week over coffee and lunch donations, is taken by a sudden backwash. A scream detonates under the sound of water. Ivy is dragged toward the edge; your hand shoots for her. Your fingers close on fabric, fabric slips, and wet weight yanks your arm.

[Sound: A long, slow crack as a mooring line parts.]
[Music: Violins at the edge of breaking, then silence like a held breath lost.]

You pull. You feel the give of someone slipping away and the impossible torque of tide. Theo deserts the clamps to try and help and is himself half-under until a second wave flips a module free and it collides with the quay. The impact is sound and smell — oil, algae, splintered timber. People are under it. Hands push the water aside. You taste seawater on your lips and for an instant all the techniques and plans you cataloged mean nothing. The sea consumes in the time it takes to blink.

Elias: (shouting, hoarse) "Let go of the line! Cut it! Save who you can!"

His voice is a collision of data and pleading, a human ripping at a seam he cannot stitch. You obey, because he is right in a way that makes you ashamed. The line thrums against the posts and then is gone.

After comes a white, whipping silence that has nothing to do with noise and everything to do with what didn't happen — the small acts of rescue that couldn't be completed. Volunteers are gone. Two bodies are turned and held by others whose fingers tremble.

[Scene: Tideworks Lab — Chaos After First Break]
[Visual: Interior lit by a single swinging lamp; maps plaster the corrugated wall, damp and flapping.]
[Sound: Radios crackling with terse, blanked calls. Someone sobs unbidden.]

Someone drags a soaked lifejacket onto the cement and drops it at your feet. Theo sits on an overturned crate and stares at his hands as if they belonged to someone else. Ivy coughs salt and laughs once — a thin, hollow sound — and then collapses into Rosa's arms. She is alive, but bones and pride bruised. You feel nothing and everything — an animal alarm for every person you could not save.

Rosa: (voice low, tidal) "We gather them. We name them. We remember."

You nod, because Rosa's commands are ceremony and balm and you follow them like breathing. But beneath obedience is a hot, burning ledger: if you had delayed, if you'd held out for more clamps, if you hadn't listened to Lena — would this have happened?

Elias kneels by a cluster of broken sensors, hands shaking. He looks like someone who has counted corpses on paper and never felt the weight. He reaches for you and the touch is a plea.

Elias: "Mara — I ran the models, but I didn't… I didn't keep watch." (He breaks off, fingers clenching.) "I thought the numbers meant we could save them."

You want to tell him that numbers never promised fate; they are proposals written in dust. Instead you say what you always say when there is no right answer: "We did what we could. We stayed. We tried."

He looks at you, and under the technocratic calm there is rawness. For the first time he lets something real unspool.

Elias: "I wanted to be certain this time. I wanted—" (his voice fails) "I wanted to be the kind of man who could prevent that other loss. I wanted to be the anchor."

You see, in his face, the silhouette of his mentor for a heartbeat — then it collapses under the new grief. The scientist whose faith was in data discovers the limits of measurement. Inside your chest, grief has an architecture: guilt stacked on top of impotence.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Turn to the radios and demand responsibility from the funders") -> Reaction: "You snatch the radio, voice shaking but loud. The channel answers with static and then a single clipped message: 'Not our liability. We're pulling support.' It lands like a stone in your gut." || Choice B ("Fold in on the nearest victims, help Rosa and Ivy organize") -> Reaction: "You kneel and fold wet blankets around shivering shoulders. You feel small, a stitch in a hemorrhaging cloth, but you are present. Rosa's hand on yours is a small, firm thing."]

[Scene: The Strand — Morning After; Crowd & Cameras]
[Visual: Morning is a pale smear. News drapes across the boardwalk like another tide: cameras, microphones, taut banners calling for answers.]
[Music: Cold piano, minimal and clinical.]
[Sound: Voices overlapping — questions, accusations, sobs.]

By morning the harbor is a salvage map. Pieces of modules wash up like bleached bones. Private funders' logos that were once stitched to volunteer jackets are absent; their support evaporated in the night. Lena's last recorded message is a corporate contract saying indemnity clauses; she has gone with the money and the PR team. The co-op's name, once whispered with gratitude, is now a line item in a conversation about negligence.

Jun arrives with a calm so measured it is almost a new kind of weapon. Lian Mor follows at his shoulder like a consequence given shape. They stand at the edge of the Strand and look at the wreckage with faces like courtroom portraits. Cameras frame them in that moment as if they were saviors surveying the scene.

Jun: (soft, dangerously reasonable) "We will mitigate the damage. We will secure funds. This is why we advocated for a city-wide plan."

The words are steel polished into policy. They make people want to vomit.

Rosa: (voice even) "You will not make the dead into statistics, Jun. They were not test data. They were people."

Jun's jaw tightens. He makes a polite effort at sorrow, then turns to you as if reading an accusation in your posture.

Jun: "We told you there were risks. We offered the city's resources if you'd cooperate on a phased, engineered approach."

There's a tightness in the crowd; some faces hang toward him. Others look at you with something colder — betrayal, the way someone looks at a household that left a door open and let disaster in.

A reporter thrusts a microphone toward you. "Why did you go with private deployment? Why did you accept a timeline that risked lives?"

Your answer is a matte weight in your mouth. You could have explained the calculus, the hours spent with eyes on gauges and hands on rope. You could have told them about Lena's voice, about the clamps you sent. But speech will not raise the bodies.

You look at Ivy holding Rosa's hand and then at the black smear of horizon where the reef should have sat like a promise. You keep thinking of your father's boat and the way an old keel wails when it gives. You think of every person not at the quay this morning because a risk assessment is an abstraction you cannot make physical.

You speak, but the words feel like petitions.

You: "We did what we could. We deployed to save lives. We never wanted—"

The microphone cuts you off with the sound of cameras chewing frames. Outside the circle of press, a man you know—someone whose son worked on the docks—leans forward, the fault in his posture raw.

Man: "My boy's gone. He trusted you."

It lands like an accusation and like a plea. You have no legalese. You have a ledger of empathy and mistakes. You have a heart that has room to take this grief and make it into contrition, but the world around you is hungry for someone to blame and for the political narrative to simplify urgency into villainy.

[Scene: Tideworks Lab — Late Morning; Aftermath & Accusation]
[Visual: The lab is ringed by ropes and police tape; volunteers move like ghosts; the air is a sour bruise of diesel and grief.]
[Sound: Hushed, sullen voices. Rubble being shifted. A radio plays a loop of bureaucratic assurances.]

Councilwoman Lian Mor stands by the container with a portable tablet. Her face is a picture of constrained policy.

Lian: "The council will open an inquiry. There will be oversight. Contracts will be reviewed."

She seems to think in balance sheets. You can hear the political elegance in her tone; you can also hear exactly how far her priorities are from people like the dockworker whose boy is gone.

Rosa moves between politeness and fury with the old skill of a mediator who knows when to stop a mouth mid-sentence. She rests a palm on your shoulder; it vibrates with mourning.

Rosa: "We will name them. We will hold a vigil. But resolutions will not bring them back. We must tend the living who are broken."

You want to nod, but your head feels like a bell that has been struck and now rings with one, horrible tone. Hands reach for you because you are their organizer, because you promised to keep the ledger of the neighborhood fair. Instead you have a page filled with ink that smells like salt and the wrong kind of endings.

Elias stands apart, notebook closed, face empty in a way that terrifies you more than any storm. He folds and unfolds his hands and seems to be practicing things he will never say.

Elias: (barely audible) "If I could go back…"

You do not tell him he cannot. You do not tell him that the past does not have the courtesy of rewind. You take his hand because it is the only human thing open to you and he grabs it like a drowning man finding a splinter of driftwood.

[Scene: The Basin — Evening Vigil]
[Visual: A circle of candles that the wind keeps trying to extinguish; community art made from debris stands like a grave marker; salt-encrusted faces gather.]
[Music: A single piano line that finds a minor chord and places it into the ribs.]
[Sound: Quiet sobs. The sea as a distant, unrelenting presence.]

The co-op organizes names. You hold the list; your handwriting looks foreign. Ivy reads them aloud, each name a small geography. Families come forward with photographs and flowers. Rosa instructs; Theo sets down a small entry of the reef module fragments, careful to preserve what evidence there is, hands trembling.

You light a candle for each life you remember. The flame tilts in the breath of the night and you feel, at last, the weight settle into a raw, honest center. Blame circles you like gulls; citizens call for prosecution, for policy change, for someone to be accountable. You do not shrink from accountability — you clasp it and it claws your hands. You wanted to save people. Instead you count them.

A boy brings a paper boat folded from a page of your journal — the page with Rosa's note: 'We remember the shore. Honor it.' The boy leaves it on the water's edge and it turns, in a small, tragic way, into a thin, bright accusation.

You go to speak and the words catch on the seawater at the edge of your tongue. There is no rhetoric that will return lives. There is only work to be done and a kind of shame you cannot explain.

[Scene: Old Beacon Lighthouse | Dawn After the Night]
[Visual: The lighthouse towers over a blackened breakwater; its glass panes are broken and wind throws salt like confetti across the stones.]
[Music: Distant, muted horns; a single mournful flute line.]
[Sound: The slow, measured chime of the beacon that no longer guides but only marks.]

You climb up the jagged steps where once the light felt like a promise. Your boots scuff broken tile; each step is a counting of consequences. The sky is grey and the sea a pocked, restless slate. On the highest platform you sit with your knees drawn in and your journal in your lap. The sea's smell is bitter with every story it has taken.

You open to the pressed seaweed Rosa wrote on and trace the faded handwriting. The letters are soft now, like older things that mean more than they appear.

You think of the volunteers' faces you saw when you could not save them, of the way Jun's expression narrowed into policy, of Lian's tentative statements that would be chewed through by lawyers and turned into distance.

You think of Elias, who tried to be certain, and the way certainty betrayed him. You wonder if he blames himself more than he blames you. You wonder if you will ever be able to look at the tide without calculating the bodies behind the data.

Night compresses into the long, flat ache of morning. The city will convalesce or calcify; the co-op will be sued and vilified and maybe vindicated in some small community archive. The funding will dry up, and the engineered solutions will be refashioned by those with resources. You will be left with the ledger of faces and names, with the memory of a rope slipping through your fingers and a boy's paper boat on the water turning away.

You rest your forehead against cool stone and allow the guilt to land. It is not an excuse; it is not a defense. It is a fact with teeth.

Rosa's voice comes in your memory like wind through reeds: We remember the shore. Honor it. You repeat it until the phrase becomes a small, terrible prayer.

You close your journal, fingers numb, and the sea keeps moving in, unstoppable and indifferent and terrible in its constancy. You do not leave the lighthouse with a plan or a press statement. You leave with something simpler and heavier: the knowledge that you tried, that you miscalculated, and that the price is carried now in names and in the absence of laughter at the quay.

You walk down from the lighthouse, each step a kind of penance, and you know with a cold clarity that the city will fold this night into its history the same way a tide folds a shoreline. You will be part of that story — savior to some, scapegoat to others — but whichever it is, you will be there to see it, to bear it, and to learn what it costs to act when the sea will not wait for better answers.

[Visual: Close-up on your hands as you slip the compass back into your jacket. The knot in the cord catches on the fabric and you let it be.]

[Music: Piano resolves on a single, minor chord that hangs.]
[Sound: The distant, inevitable pulse of the ocean.]

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Fade Out]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}