[Scene: Floodplain Market | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Raised platforms crowded with canvas stalls; long orange shadows slice between stilts]
[Sound: Voices ripple like incoming tide—snatches of argument, a child's shout, a vendor slamming a crate]
[Music: Tense BGM — a low pulsing cello under a staccato percussion]

You arrive already carrying the meeting from the promenade: the small ledger of promises, Kai's steady words, the compass in your chest that feels less like an object and more like a memory you cannot unfasten. The market smells of brine and frying fish, compost, and the iron tang that rides every storm-slick morning. Light is falling hard; the town looks pressed between sea and sky, and everyone here knows what "pressed" tastes like.

The forum has been moved to the largest cluster of platforms—Nita's produce stall pushed back so Reverend Sol can stand at the center, kneeboard turned makeshift dais. People lean on railings, perched on crates, sit on fishermen's coils of rope. Children thread between legs like kelp.

Reverend Sol: "We agreed to let everyone speak. One at a time, with respect. Marisport holds together when we listen." (His voice is weathered but firm; the cane taps a slow metronome.)

You take in the faces—neighbors you grew up with, the woman who runs the bakery whose roof you helped patch last winter, a burr of teenagers with paint-splattered hoodies, Nita with her apron already folded into impatience. Juno stands near you, jaw set, trying to look small and fierce at once. Kai's presence is to your left; you can feel him like another heartbeat through the crowd—warm, hopeful, and, right now, bristling with the same worry that has hollowed out your stomach.

[Visual: Camera lingers on Nita's face; a smear of flour on her cheek, hands clenched]
[Sound: A rumble of discontent; someone boos softly]

Dr. Leila steps forward first with her tablet. She lays out numbers—salt intrusion, projected surge heights, survival models for living reefs versus hard barriers—her voice clipped, precise, trying to turn fear into policy.

Dr. Leila: "If we deploy a belt of oyster reef and kelp lines in the next ninety days, our models show a measurable reduction in nearshore wave energy. It's not immediate like a wall, but it's persistent—gains that compound with time."

A woman in the crowd: "That's what if. What's the cost if it fails? Who pays for our houses then?"

You feel the room tilt toward panic at the word fails. Questions ricochet—sudden and sharp—and Dr. Leila's face tightens the way scientists' faces do when numbers get personal.

Dr. Leila: "There are uncertainties. There are permits. But the ecological approach also preserves our fisheries and the promenade's access. Loss of access hits our livelihoods in ways a concrete barrier won't."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step forward and summarize Leila's point plainly") -> Reaction: "You push off the crate and your voice cuts through the murmur—plain, blunt. People quiet, listening for the practical. || Choice B ("Let Kai speak for the technical side") -> Reaction: "You nudge Kai with your elbow; he straightens, swallows, and offers the data in friendlier language, and you feel the conversation widen, softer at the edges."]

The soundscape spikes when Evelyn Black arrives—she doesn't so much enter as alight into the space, a tailored silhouette against the slant sun. People part in a reflex that is not reverence so much as calculation; she carries an aura of solution already packaged.

Evelyn Black: "I won't soften the truth. A modular seawall—sealed, engineered, rapidly deployable—gives immediate protection. It's the difference between houses underwater and houses saved. I know engineering. I know margins. We cannot gamble people's roofs on experiments."

Nita: "You promised us protection last year, Evelyn. Promises don't mean anything if the people paying the price are the ones the plan forgets."

Evelyn: (cool) "My firm built protections that saved entire districts. This is about triage. We protect the most vulnerable where possible, and we use limited resources where they save the most lives."

The phrase "triage" lands like a cold stone between you. You think of streets that slope toward the marsh, of your father's boat bobbing in a photo you carried for years—of things that were lost because decisions were taken somewhere else. There is a bitterness at the back of your throat; it tastes like seawater and a ledger's margins.

Kai steps up, but his voice is measured, trying to bridge.

Kai Navarro: "We need a path that keeps people whole. Rapid protection isn't inherently bad, Evelyn, but the plan you've pitched risks locking out community access and displacing renters—"

Evelyn: (interrupting) "Displacement is a last resort, Mr. Navarro. Our designs can be adjusted—"

Kai: "Adjusted how? After the concrete pours? When construction gets prioritized by capital flows and not by local oversight?"

Their exchange blooms into a prickly back-and-forth. You can see the town's anxiety condense into the two of them, into the gulf between urgent engineering and patient ecology. Reverend Sol raises a hand, trying to steer the torrent into a channel.

Reverend Sol: "This isn't an argument about theory; it's about the people who will sleep on the other side of these decisions. We owe them a seat at the table, even as we move quickly."

A man from the back shouts: "Speed or we drown. I'm not asking for fine print when the tide is at my door."

Your throat goes dry. You are being watched—expectation ricocheting like a bell. All of the possible futures you carry—demonstrations, negotiated clauses, solo reef deployments—feel like brittle seeds in your palms. Each would bruise someone.

Juno steps forward, voice raw: "If we do the wall, I—"

They falter, then jab the phrase out: "If we do the wall, my friends will be priced out. They'll move away. I don't want Marisport to become a museum for people with money."

The crowd tightens around that confession. You want to answer, to fold Juno into a hug and an action plan at once; you want to promise the moon and the harbor. Instead you feel the chair-leg thrum through your boots—the market boards underfoot remind you of the fragile support beneath all the rhetoric.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Reach and squeeze Juno's shoulder to ground them") -> Reaction: "Your fingers find Juno's shoulder. The touch is brief but steady; they inhale and nod like a small boat righting. || Choice B ("Step back and give them room to finish") -> Reaction: "You take a breath and step aside. Juno swallows and finishes their sentence in a voice that carries—more of the crowd hears it, and the words settle into the boards."]

You look to Kai. His eyes flare—amber and tired—but when he opens his mouth, his tone is careful.

Kai Navarro: "We can organize a demonstration that shows the living shoreline works—real, visible—without being reckless. But we need legal cover, volunteers, sensors, a plan that won't be dismissed as stunts."

You can hear the calculation—the optimism tempered with a bureaucrat's pragmatism. It's the kind of plan you both can sink into together: hands-on, messy, community-driven. It is also the kind of plan that could make you reckless if it fails.

Evelyn's smile is small and controlled.

Evelyn: "Demonstrations are theatre. They don't stop a surge. If your goal is to sway public opinion with a spectacle, be honest about it. Engineering saves lives. I would rather be criticized for bluntness than praised for illusions."

Her voice is a scalpel. People around you flinch. The market's warmth gives way to a metallic edge, and the air tastes like a storm front rolling in.

Dr. Leila tries to anchor the room again with data; Reverend Sol reminds everyone of process. But between the measured voices, the raw edges of fear and anger flash. You feel the pressure of everyone's gaze—expectation, accusation, hope.

You could call for organized resistance—a mass, visible stance that could rally the town and make the company reconsider. You could propose a hybrid—sit across from Evelyn and force binding community governance into whatever is built. Or you could do something more dangerous and immediate: stage a living-reef demonstration yourself, fast and visible, risking both success and catastrophic failure.

Your pulse quickens; the arousal you've been managing over the past days ripples into a current that wants to break the dam.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step up and tell a story about your father—why Marisport matters to you") -> Reaction: "You open with the memory; it slides raw between the measured claims. Heads turn; some faces soften, some harden. The room hears a cost that isn't on any spreadsheet. || Choice B ("Call out Evelyn directly for prioritizing profit over people") -> Reaction: "Your words sharpen into accusation. A few cheer; others flinch. Evelyn's jaw tightens; the air tightens with confrontation."]

You swallow the urge to fill the moment with everything: your father's absence, the nights you stayed awake planning sensors, the small betrayals you've learned to forgive for a roof over a head. Naming loss feels like handing the room a mirror—it could galvanize them, or it could fracture the fragile coalition you already have.

Kai reaches for your hand but doesn't finish the motion. His face is unreadable—something flickering there that you can't parse completely: steadfastness, doubt, loyalty—each possibility heavy as a slab. You meet his eyes, and in that little current between you there is the private arithmetic of what failure would do to the two of you.

Kai Navarro: (quiet) "Whatever you choose, I'll stand with it. But choose knowing what you'll have to defend—the people, not the PR."

You draw a breath that tastes like cold iron and brine. The crowd leans forward. Reverend Sol's cane taps once, like a judge's gavel.

Reverend Sol: "Mara—" (he uses your name as if naming the town's heartbeat) "We need a path. Speak for us."

The market noise collapses into a silence so complete you can hear the salt in the air. Your palms sweat against the boards. The arousal curve you've been carrying spikes—voices ring in your ears, the pressure of responsibility like a tightening rope.

You step up to the dais. The light catches the edges of your face; every patched seam of your jacket looks suddenly fragile and fiercely held together. You imagine the three roads before you, each one cutting a different sort of loss and a different kind of future.

You do not speak yet. Because this choice is more than strategy—it's a moral seam in the town's fabric, and the way you thread it will tug at people's lives long after words are forgotten.

[Visual: Close-up on your face; camera holds as the market breathes around you]
[Music: Tense BGM swells to the peak]

You inhale. The decision waits on your tongue.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "The town demands leadership; you must pick a strategy to confront Evelyn’s plan.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Organize a public resistance and demonstration",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Negotiate a hybrid plan with binding community governance",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Stage a bold solo demonstration of a living reef offshore",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}