[Scene: Tidehaven Boardwalk | Dawn]
[Visual: Fog-thin light, plank textures glistening; neon sign flickers over a shuttered bait shop]
[Sound: Distant gulls, a low diesel hum from a morning ferry, boards creaking underfoot]
[Music: Sparse, low piano with salt-wind ambient pads]

You step off the bus and the world exhales salt.

The air is a braid of brine and diesel, the two smells braided together so long they make their own odor in Tidehaven. Fog licks the railings and folds the harbor into shapes: masts become ghosts, tarred ropes melt into gray. You pull the collar of your olive jacket up and tuck the sea-green tips of your hair into the loose knot at the nape of your neck, the motion automatic as checking a tide table.

Your fingers close around the weatherproof notebook at your chest like a rosary. The leather is still soft from years of being carried—days catalogued in pen smears and sticky residue, sketches of breakwaters and notes from late-night council calls. The brass compass on the chain against your throat is colder than you'd expected; you run your thumb along its edge and let the memory of your mother figure like a tide line under everything.

The boardwalk is quieter than your memory wants it to be. Once there were always more boats—a small flotilla bobbing, laughter spilling like nets. Now there are fewer hulls, more patched planks and improvised floats. A neon sign over the bait shop sputters in hungry orange, painting the raindamps a color they don't remember being. It buzzes and dies and buzzes again like an anxious heartbeat.

Somewhere ahead, Jonah leans against the rail.

He looks up at the sound of your footfalls: thick black hair with sun-bleached tips, that steady, amber-brown look at the corners of his eyes when he smiles in a way that both welcomes and tests you. He’s in his oilskin coat patched at the elbows, hands shoved into pockets, a wool scarf tucked under his jaw against the salt. He nods; it’s a small motion but the whole boardwalk tilts. The ache you’ve carried—the one that lives in the hollow where your father’s boat used to be—tightens like a line under strain.

Jonah: "You made it back before the meeting. Figured you'd be more dramatic—grand entrance, fog parting, a gull dropping a policy brief on your head." (He lets out a short, wry laugh that doesn’t touch his eyes.)

You (Mira): "You wish. Bus was late. Fog moved faster than the timetable." (You force a smile; it feels like a muscle you haven't exercised in a while.)

Jonah: "Feels smaller than you remember, doesn't it?" (He jerks his chin toward the harbor.) "Or maybe that's just me getting older."

You look where he’s pointing. The harbor could be both: smaller in boats, larger in the empty places. You taste the memory of the storm as something tactile—shingles and salt and a voice on the radio you couldn't find. Guilt folds into the cold: if you'd been here sooner, if you'd— The thought is a hooked line that snags on your throat and won't let go.

You (Mira): "Smaller now. But I'm here to help make sure it doesn't disappear altogether." (You feel the words before they leave your mouth, as if sculpting a promise in the mist.)

Jonah: "Good. Someone's got to remind Evelyn you can actually talk to people with plans that aren't just—" (He waves a hand, searching) "—algorithms and whiteboards."

You want to sharpen your answer. He offers a familiar flint of his humor to strike up conversation and you almost take it, but the memory of leaving crowds the corners of the exchange with unresolved edges.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Nod back at Jonah, keep it light") -> Reaction: "You tilt your head and give him a brief, deflecting nod. 'I'll bring the human part of the plan,' you tell him, letting the joke land where it needs to—on the surface. Jonah relaxes a fraction; the old cadence returns, but the ache under it stays." || Choice B ("Stare out at the water, quiet") -> Reaction: "You let your gaze drift to the harbor instead of answering. The silence pulls Jonah's smile taut. He doesn't push; he waits, and the waiting occupies a conversation of its own, full of things you can't say yet."]

Jonah watches you choose, and whatever you do, he doesn't make it small.

Bento is at the rail a few planks down—stooped, cap low, hands folded over the splintered wood. He is a map of Tidehaven's weathered patience: sun-leathered skin, knotted fingers, a coat that looks older than most of the harbor. He hums something like a fragment of a tune and then lifts his head when he recognizes you, slow as the swell under the piers.

Bento: "Well, would you look at that. Back before the gulls stop talking." (He grunts a laugh. It tastes like a memory of a market day.) "Don't go signing us away to the city planners yet."

You (Mira): "I don't plan to." (The words come out practical, sharpened by the years you spent learning how to make scale models and spreadsheets say what your heart wanted them to.) "I'm here to listen. To measure. To—" (You stop; listening sounds smaller when you say it aloud, inadequate against maps and rising seas.)

Bento eyes the compass at your throat, and for a second there's something almost kind—like recognition stripped bare of the lectures and the town's cautious humor.

Bento: "Your ma's compass. Hold it steady. You'll need steady hands more than clever maps." (He taps the wood between you and him.) "And don't let 'em rush you. Rushed things break."

Evelyn passes by with mayoral placards folded under her arm—her scarf is a familiar weave of campaign colors now dulled by biennial meetings and tough funding cycles. She greets Jonah with the short half-hug of two people who have shared too many storms and too many coffee pots.

Evelyn: "Morning, Mira. Good to see you back." (She smiles with the practiced warmth of someone who must carry more faces than she can really feed with the truth.) "Council's expecting some tough questions today. There's talk of a city-level planner flying in—someone with a departmental badge. Pamphlets were handed out at the dock this morning." (She holds up a flier briefly; you see a logo—clean, severe type—and the implication of decisions made in rooms you don't know.)

You (Mira): "A city planner?" (You let the question be open. The name on the pamphlet is small and functional; the presence it implies is not.)

Evelyn: "Yes. Pressures from the regional council. Funding is tight. They want a presentation—hard numbers, timelines. Asha Verma's name came up; you might see her around the meeting." (The syllables of the name hang with the firmness of someone who makes decisions with a hand that doesn't tremble.)

Asha. You let the name settle like a stone in the shallow pool of your thoughts. The city planner with the departmental badge—her reputation precedes her, sharp as a surveyor's stake. You do not know her, but you know what she represents: fast decisions, the kind that make hard maps of people.

Jonah watches Evelyn's face for a beat and then looks back at you, an unreadable shadow crossing his features.

Jonah: "You and her will probably disagree about everything that isn't strictly measured. Don't let it get in the way of the fishing rights talk, okay?" (He says 'rights' like it's another tight knot he wants to keep from untangling.)

You (Mira): "I won't." (You mean it, but the word feels like a promise stretched over an uncertain map.)

The pamphlet's logo—severe type against white—catches the neon's sputter. You fingernail the cover of your notebook, feeling the dent where a pen used to live. You think of scale bars and salt marsh cross-sections, of how an engineered seawall looks in a rendering: absolute, clean, and elegant in a way that excises the messy edges of people's lives.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Press your thumb against the pendant and remember your father") -> Reaction: "The compass is cool against your skin. You close your eyes for a breath and catch a flash: your father's hands, rope-scented and sure, teaching you a knot. The memory steadies you and tightens the ache into something you can carry." || Choice B ("Open the notebook and run your eyes over tide charts") -> Reaction: "You pry the notebook open to a page of charts and markups. Lines and arrows make sense in a way faces don't this morning. It sharpens your focus—numbers are presentable, negotiable; emotion less so—until you have to translate it." ]

You choose, and the choice folds into you like a small stitch. It doesn't erase anything; it gives shape to the ache.

The boardwalk breathes around you—gulls, the distant thud of a crate being set down, the murmur of people stacking chairs for a meeting that will decide futures. You and Jonah talk longer: about harvests that came up thin, about the makeshift marsh-planting drive Kai ran last month, about Bento's stories of seas that used to be kinder. The exchange loops and returns; Jonah teases, you counter with measured takes, Bento adds that old-voice moral gravity, and Evelyn smooths for the sake of civic linens. It's not a resolution. It is a rehearsal for bureaucracy.

Jonah: "Promise me one thing." (He's suddenly quiet; the air rearranges around the syllable.) "If you go into that room wearing your mother’s compass like armor, don't let them convince you the only path is to leave everything we remember behind."

You (Mira): "I won't promise what I can't deliver." (The truth is thin; it's the plank under the tide—there, solid for now.) "But I'll argue for options that keep people here where it makes sense. And if something can't be saved, we'll make sure moving is a choice, not a dictate."

He looks at you long enough that the fog could have swallowed more of the harbor and you'd still feel his gaze.

You walk toward the Saltmarsh Research Lab—its greenhouse extension a sullen skin of glass, solar shades folded like patient eyelids. The path takes you along the harbor edge; salt spray dots your jacket. The sound of the town rearranging its daily life—people sweeping boards, a generator's complaint, a child yelling—layers into a kind of communal rhythm that is both comfort and alarm.

[Scene: Harbor | Dawn]
[Visual: Close-ups of barnacled hulls, patched planks, tide pools reflecting steely sky]
[Sound: Water sluicing, muffled footsteps, a distant bell on a service boat]

You walk with the notebook in one hand and the compass resting against your sternum. You rehearse what you'll say in the meeting—how living shorelines can absorb wave energy, how marsh restoration buys time, how community-led projects keep livelihoods intact while we buy policy time. The words feel both urgent and fragile. You remember the late-night models you drew in grad school, the simulations that showed percentages and probabilities—sterile things until they hit a place with faces and fishing nets and a history.

Dr. Lian Zhou steps out of the lab doorway as you arrive, sleeves rolled and boots still salt-streaked. She looks at you with the professional, almost maternal steadiness of someone who reads data and people with equal care.

Dr. Lian: "You're Mira, right? We were expecting you." (She nods at your notebook.) "Good—Evelyn called ahead. We've pulled together some of the latest sediment cores and a preliminary elevation map. Nothing final, but it'll frame today's conversation."

You (Mira): "Thank you. I was hoping to compare the models against what people on the ground are seeing." (You hand the notebook closed, as if that tiny exchange could anchor science to memory.)

Dr. Lian: "That's exactly why you're here." (She offers a small smile, one that acknowledges the wear in your eyes.) "We need both—hard data and local knowledge."

The lab's glass panes have salt trails poly-laced from storms past; inside, benches are cluttered with jars and monitors. The greenhouse smells faintly of peat and wet compost, a softer breath than the boardwalk's diesel. It is a place built to bridge—concrete models in a wooden hull.

You pause at the threshold, feeling the gravity of the day's small orbit: a mayoral meeting that will decide whether Tidehaven's future is negotiated with community nuance or mapped in a ledger by someone who never felt the weight of a net in their hands. The fog presses at the windows like a question mark.

You tighten the strap of your notebook and feel the brass compass against your skin one last time.

You think about the possibility that engineering and memory might not simply coexist; you think about the compromises that will be demanded and the ones you are not ready to make. The boardwalk recedes behind you in a corridor of sound—Jonah's voice trailing, Bento's chuckle, Evelyn's measured steps. Ahead, the lab's greenhouse glass is a palimpsest of light and salt.

The town is holding its breath.

[Music: Dissonant single chord, sustained, then a softer undercurrent of piano]
[Sound: Door closing softly behind you as you step into the Saltmarsh Research Lab]

You step forward into the lab and the meeting you prepared for waits like a tideline—inevitable, impatient. Your thumb brushes the compass again. The ache doesn't ease. It becomes a decision you must carry through a room that prefers definitive answers.

You look up at the monitors where maps glow in teal and ochre. A flier with a city-planner logo has already been pinned to the cork board near the door, a small, clinical emblem in a room smelling of peat and promise.

You inhale. The air is colder here, less salt than ideas. For a second, your reflection in the glass is a double: you as the woman who left and the woman who returned, both looking small and large all at once.

The day will require more than models and more than memory. It will require the hard, honest work of turning both into a plan people can live inside.

You close your eyes for a heartbeat and let the fog from the boardwalk dissolve into the lab's steady light.

You step toward the place where data and promises will be laid out in front of a council that must choose.

You are ready to speak—but the meeting room door opens and the room waits for you to enter.

[Page-Turn Moment]
You stand at the threshold with the compass at your throat and the afternoon's meeting like a bruise under your ribs—choices, pressures, and the small human cost of every policy move orbiting in a cold, bureaucratic gravity. Someone calls your name. The fog outside has not lifted; instead, it now feels like an audience holding its breath.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 2
}