[Scene: Old Docks Community Hub | Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of the Hub—sunlight smeared through damp tarps, strings of solar lamps blinking as if they never slept]
[Music: Urgent strings under a low, pulsing synth]
[Sound: Distant gulls, the metallic clink of tools, a projector humming]

You step into the hub feeling the weight of the last hearing like a stone in your chest. The room is already moving—boards clipped with maps, a chalkboard where names and tasks are scrawled in looping urgency, the pungent smell of coffee and wet canvas. Hands pass sandbags and seed packets across benches. The air tastes of salt and work.

Nora looks up from a battered tablet and offers a tight, tired smile. Samir is at the back folding a net with deliberate, slow fingers. Luca is bent over the table, a tide chart spread between his palms and your field notebook. He makes a joke about the chart being "dramatic," but his voice is thin. You can hear under it the part that won't laugh.

Maya Ortega: "All right. We hold fast to living shorelines. We map, we plant, we fund—little by little. Who's with me for the first planting this weekend?"

Luca: "I'm with you. And I've got a list of folks from the old fishers' co-op who'll come if we promise food and an honest timetable."

Nora: "Crowdfunding page is live. Nora (half-smile) and I cleaned up the pitch—quick, human, with photos of Samir's stories. We can hit micro-grants next week."

Samir (softly): "People remember the marsh. They may not all want to dig, but they'll come for their memories." He looks at you—those weathered eyes a small challenge and a benediction in one.

You watch them. Each agreement is a small, noisy victory. But there are thin lines threading through the room—hesitations you can feel before they say a word. The news has already started to glitter in other forms.

[Visual: Close-up on your tablet. A headline scrolls: "Ari Nakamura Announces Flagship Seawall — City's Future Secured?"]
[Sound: Notification ping, a bell that feels like a counting-down clock]

You let the headline sit like cold iron in your lap. Ari's plan is beautiful in renderings—sleek, shiny, an easy promise. It will attract funds and tidy applause. It will also push water, and with it the people who have nowhere else.

Luca sees the headline too. He snatches your gaze and squeezes your shoulder—not showy, just a steadying pressure.

Luca: "We can't compete with that flash, not alone. But we don't need to. We need people who'll tend the shore when contractors leave."

Maya Ortega: "We need to show that tending matters. That the tidal edge isn't a technical problem only—it's a life."

Nora interrupts with a practical jab. Nora: "Also—permits. Councilwoman Reyes is asking for contingency projections. She wants numbers if the pilot fails. We can't give her that yet."

You feel the old ledger of your mistake—past pilot underfunded—curling its shadow around your throat. Guilt is a second pulse tonight; it dials up every time you imagine a line of homes slipping into saline.

Samir (quietly): "People worry about promises. They remember when the city promised bricks and left rope. We can't promise more than we can keep."

Luca (with sudden intensity): "Then we don't promise to be everything. We promise to be there. We show scheduling, training, stockpiles. We make contingency a community thing—not a bureaucratic afterthought."

You nod, but the nod doesn't feel like enough. You know trust is slow and unforgiving.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Give Samir the floor—let him lead community outreach") -> Reaction: "You step back and nudge Samir forward. He clears his throat, and the room leans in when he tells the old fishing stories that become reasons to plant roots. || Choice B ("Push the crowdfunding pitch—run the campaign aggressive and fast") -> Reaction: "You tap the tablet and set the page to 'urgent'—Nora blinks but follows. The language tightens into call-to-action; you smell a thin, metallic anticipation."]

[Scene: Salt Marsh Reserve | Afternoon]
[Visual: Wide, low shot of the marsh—ribbons of reed and mud reflecting a pale sky; your boots sink a little with each step]
[Music: Percussive low beats with a rising tempo]
[Sound: Water lapping at rootlines, the whisper of reeds, a distant thunder-thrum]

You stand at the edge of the reserve, tide boots heavy, hands full of saplings and biodegradable stakes. The marsh smells of wet paper and green rot, and the cold mud grabs at your soles as if to keep you there. Volunteers cluster like anxious birds—some young, eager; others older, arms crossed, remembering storms that swept away more than things.

You give instructions, voice steady even as your head drums. Plant the bundles, angle roots to trap sediment, weave with cord to reduce current. Each motion is repetition and ritual; each ritual a little defiance.

Luca works beside you, sleeves rolled, mud under his nails. He shows a young volunteer exactly how to tie a root-fence knot, then grins when the knot holds. There is something alive in those small victories that warms you like a flint.

Volunteer Woman (hesitant): "What if it doesn't hold? What if the next surge—"

Maya Ortega: "Then we go back. We fix. We learn. We don't move people as a first answer."

Volunteer Woman: "But the seawall—everyone on TV said—"

Luca (cutting in, soft): "TV sells certainty. We sell continuity. It's not as loud, but it's harder to break."

Your chest tightens. The questions gnaw at the edges of every plan: will people volunteer when bills are due? Will the elderly trust a new system of stewardship? Will the next storm come before roots take?

Nora comes up beside you, breathless with a list of logistics. Nora: "We've got three micro-grants pending if we can show a live site and volunteer hours. Councilwoman Reyes called—she wants a contingency outline by tomorrow. Says 'hard questions' will be raised about scale."

You feel the world narrow into a single axis: do you keep building slowly and risk being called impractical, or do you try to present contingency metrics that look like engineering? You can smell the tension—like ozone before a storm.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Answer Reyes tonight—draft technical contingency with Nora") -> Reaction: "You pull Nora aside and you both begin sketching numbers—compromises and fallback bands. The work is cold and precise; it steadies but frays something warm inside. || Choice B ("Stay on the marsh—finish planting and trust the demonstration will speak for itself") -> Reaction: "You shake your head and kneel into the mud. Your fingers press the root-balls deeper. Your hands shake, but you feel the soil take them in. The world narrows to green and salt."]

[Scene: Old Docks | Dusk — Volunteers finish, tools stacked]
[Visual: The Hub under a bruised sky; lanterns glow like promises that might go out]
[Music: Quickened strings with a single high piano note repeating]
[Sound: Murmurs of thanks, the distant rumble of city traffic, rain beginning again]

The planting day ends with a quiet tally. Some volunteers linger, talking of other storms, of kids and rent and the odd stubborn hope that a patch of marsh could mean more than a buffer. Others leave quickly, hands full of sandwiches.

Luca finds you leaning against a piling covered in algae and hands you a thermos. He doesn't wait for thanks. He presses the thermos into your palms like an offering. You take a sip—too hot—but it steadies the tremor in your hands.

Luca: "You did good today. People came because you asked them."

Maya Ortega: "I asked everyone to keep faith enough to show up. But faith doesn't stop a tide, Luca."

Luca (soft, leaning closer): "No. But it gives us hands when tide comes."

His words are small. They press against the shell of your defenses. You realize, with a sting that tastes like salt and something else, that each small ritual—kneeling to plant, teaching a volunteer a knot, heating hands together over thermos steam—is knitting a closeness between you and the people on the ground. Between you and Luca, the stitches are becoming taut.

Nora (from across the dock): "Samir says the radio's been brokered. He wants to do a short piece—plain talk, no fluff."

Samir (already in motion): "People need to hear honest voices, not renderings."

You watch him prepare, and a small part of you envies how simple his resolve appears. But simplicity is dangerous. There are currents under every decision.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Take Luca's offered shelter—let him pull you close for a minute") -> Reaction: "You allow him a breath; his shoulder is warm, steady. For a second the world reduces to the pulse at his neck and the smell of wet canvas. || Choice B ("Keep distance—focus on the radio message and the day ahead") -> Reaction: "You step back, curling your hands around the thermos like an anchor. Your voice is careful when you answer Samir, clear and public. The moment passes as if it never nearly happened."]

[Scene: Tideside (Seawall Promenade) | Night — Storm-light on the horizon]
[Visual: Boardwalk slick with spray; neon repair beacons smear into long reflections across puddles]
[Music: Fast, insistent percussion; a high, anxious violin line]
[Sound: Waves thudding, a distant alarm tone, radio static]

The tide comes up faster than you expect. It presses at the pilings with an almost hungry sound. You and a small crew are out on the Tideside because seedlings are most vulnerable when roots are new—this is the hour they could be lost.

Your wristband notes rising tide metrics in silent ticks. You feel each tick like a tallied risk. Rain begins—sharp, stinging—and the world narrows to the need: secure the fences, reinforce the stakes, move the sacks.

Luca shouts over the wind, instructions clipped but urgent. Nora hands out cord and clamps. Samir moves with the economy of muscle and memory, placing each hand as if the marsh is an old friend.

Maya Ortega: "Drive the stakes deeper—angle them toward the current. Now!"

Luca: "Two more lines, Maya. I'll hold the rope. Nora, tighten—don't stop."

The team scrambles. Water slaps against your boots. You can feel the seedlings in their bundles, cold and tiny in your hands. Each time you press a stake you think of the homes behind you, the faces you've promised to protect. Guilt blooms into something sharp. This is what you were afraid of: the moment when patience and labor must meet a surge and prove themselves.

A radio crackles—a message that makes the blood in your ears go cold.

Councilwoman Elena Reyes (voice over radio, clipped): "Maya—status? Storm is tracking harder. We need your contingency timeline now. If the living shoreline fails, what are evacuation thresholds? I need actionable triggers."

Her tone is polite but the undercurrent is pressure—pushed by insistent officials and images of Ari's seawall on loop. She is not asking; she is tallying.

You feel every volunteer look toward you, your body a fulcrum. One wrong calc and a family could be on a timeline they did not understand. The sky seems to lean in.

Your mouth tastes of salt and old fear. The old failed pilot flashes through—how quickly community trust can splinter. You imagine the worst-case: rain-sodden roofs abandoned, the little woven bracelet from the marsh community frayed and left on a fencepost.

Luca is at your side, breathless, eyes wide. He whispers, not for the radio but to you.

Luca (urgent whisper): "If we outline triggers—clear, community-led—they might not force relocations. We have to give them thresholds they trust."

Maya Ortega: "Thresholds with what authority? My word? Samir's memory? Numbers that may not hold?"

Luca: "We tie them to people—who calls evacuation, who reads the markers on the docks, where supplies are staged. Make it communal and immediate."

Nora (shouting over gusts): "We don't have time to draw policy! We can patch, we can mark, but not legislate."

Samir (voice steady): "Then we make the markers clear. We teach. We promise the routes. It's the only thing that keeps people from panicking."

Your hands are numb; the night presses at you like an accusation.

You realize the climax is not a single act but a compressed storm of choices—do you answer Reyes with the measured contingency she wants or do you insist on a living-process that cannot be reduced to a tidy trigger? You feel the responsibility like an electric wire.

The radio blares again, closer, the council chamber's cool voice entering the wet and muddled air.

Councilwoman Elena Reyes (over radio): "Maya. We need thresholds by sunrise. The public wants metrics."

Your throat tightens. You can almost hear Ari's renderings shimmering on the city feeds—certain, complete. Your work is messy and human. The volunteers look at you, soaked and waiting. Time seems to condense into the space between your breath and the next wave.

You close your eyes for a second, tasting mud and memory and a long ledger of what you promised. The arousal that has been building—busy days, public pressure, the glittering promise of Ari's seawall—surges. Anxiety becomes motion. Motion becomes decision-making pressure.

Your radio lights up again with incoming messages from the Hub—Nora's clipped voice asking if you can compile basic thresholds now; Samir urging calm; Luca asking if you trust him to lead the on-the-ground trigger calls.

You are the hinge. The air vibrates with possibility and with consequences.

[Visual: Close-up on your hands—mud-slimed, clenched around a stake; the tide climbing in visible, cold inches]
[Music: A held, high string note that cuts out into near-silence—then resumed, higher and faster]

You inhale. The night tastes like salt, like fear, like the weight of all the people who stitched a life into a coastline they did not own.

[Page-Turn: The radio waits for your call. The storm is counting down. Your decision now will shape how the neighborhood moves when the sea decides.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 5
}