[Scene: Salt Marsh Reserve | Night]
[Visual: Wind-bleached reeds whipping; a torn net floats like a flag. A family stoop tilts, mud washed from beneath the planks. Flashing van lights smear in the distance.]
[Music: High-tempo electronic percussion under urgent strings]
[Sound: Tide slamming, shouting, the metallic rattle of camera shutters]

You are still running when the sound of the marsh decides to become accusation. Your boots sink; the sapling you grabbed is a useless, wet stick in your hand. The restored stretch—where Nora's clamps meet Samir’s stories and your late-night calculations—has been punched open by the surge. The ground under a neighbor’s front stoop has simply gone: a half-ton of porch now hangs like an unfinished sentence over mud.

You taste salt, iron, and something like old guilt. The night wraps around you in cold, damp hostility. The volunteer who was supposed to hold the anchor looks at you and then at the hole and then at you again, and you feel the weight of all three gazes as if they were stones.

Samir Qureshi: "This was new. This was supposed to hold." (His voice is slow, but the syllables are hard as rubbish.)

Nora (breathing fast): "We used the reinforced bundles—tied the root mats the way Samir showed us. It wasn't supposed to—"

Luca Chen: (cutting in) "It wasn't supposed to, and it still did. That difference matters."

Your hands remember the strain on the sapling as if it's a small ledger you can't close. You think of the pilot you led—the one that failed in the past—and how the neighborhood forgave then, out of exhaustion and love. You think of the ledger again: numbers that made promises you couldn't always keep.

[Visual: News van headlights pierce the marsh like knives; silhouettes of microphones bob close.]
[Sound: Microphones thud into place; a reporter's voice, thin with practiced urgency, floats across the water.]

Reporter: "Maya Ortega? Can we get a word on the pilot project failure? Who's responsible? Are residents safe?"

Every instinct in you snaps toward containment: facts, timeline, what you can say without fueling panic. But there's also the fierce, human impulse to hold the neighbor's stoop with your hands rather than with talking points.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step up and address the vans") -> Reaction: "You wipe mud from your sleeve and walk toward the microphones, your voice steady but raw as you frame 'what happened' in plain human terms." || Choice B ("Turn back to shore up the stoop") -> Reaction: "You turn away from the cameras and go to the neighbor, hands working, voice low and direct: 'Help me—hold this side.'" || Choice C ("Signal Luca to handle press") -> Reaction: "You catch Luca’s eye and nod. He steps forward, half-anger, half-smile, and meets the reporters with the blunt charisma that keeps people listening."]

A reporter's recorder clicks; a camera captures the stoop as if it were evidence. Lights wash over the marsh like a second tide.

You decide—briefly—how to allocate your weight: toward the public eye, toward a stoop that is someone's life, or toward trusting Luca to translate your anger into something that keeps people listening. Whatever you chose, the moment doesn't calm; it funnels the noise.

[Scene: Tideside Boardwalk | Night — moments later]
[Visual: The boardwalk is slick; cedar benches glisten. A cluster of neighbors form a shaky ring. Councilwoman Reyes stands near the railing with her slate; a municipal aide angles a lamp toward a clean, neutral folder.]
[Music: Tension builds—snare rolls, high violin tremolo]
[Sound: Murmurs sharpen; a distant thunderclap punctuates a sentence]

Councilwoman Elena Reyes: (measured, a politician trained to make storms sound like policy) "Maya. Council will want a clear report. We need to know: was this a design failure, a maintenance issue, or an extraordinary event?"

You feel the question as a lever placed against your sternum. Data could be offered, but the room is not just numbers tonight. Samir's thumb keeps knitting a pattern in the mud by his boot—a ritual to steady him. Neighbors shout across the ring, sharp as gulls.

Neighbor (woman, voice shaking): "You told us this would protect our houses. My boy's room is saturated—what do we do now?"

Nora (low, practical): "We can stabilize the foundation—temporary bracing and a trench to divert—"

Neighbor: (cuts Nora off) "We trusted the pilot. We trusted you, Maya. Don't tell us technical steps—tell us why this didn't hold."

Your chest tightens. You can, in that moment, feel the calculus of trust unraveling in real time. Each person’s face is a ledger entry: expectation and loss and a demand for an accounting you do not have a single, simple answer for.

[Visual: Ari Nakamura arrives with two aides; their clothing is immaculate despite the rain. One carries a tablet where neat diagrams scroll.]
[Sound: Footsteps perfectly timed; the aides' umbrellas click closed with surgical precision]

Ari looks at the stoop, then at you, then at the Councilwoman. The expression on his face is unreadable—arned with appraisal rather than sympathy.

Ari Nakamura: (cool, measured) "Our data anticipated storm surges of this magnitude. The design parameters were within projected ranges. That said, we're preparing a technical brief. We can deploy temporary sheet piling by morning."

His voice is a kind of promise wrapped in measurement. The promise contains efficiency and distance at once. You feel oddly observed, as if you're a node in someone else's model.

Luca (stepping forward, jaw tight): "And what about the people you moved out of the zone during surveys? Where's the oversight for them? Where's accountability for decisions that adjust people's lives?"

Ari: (tilting head slightly, polite) "We coordinated with the municipal schedule. Any displacement was temporary and compensated. The priority right now is to secure the site."

Luca: "Temporary for whom? City budgets aren't a replacement for a home."

Samir (quiet, cutting through): "This wasn't temporary, son. This is a family stoop. People sleep under that roof. You can't paper it over with a spreadsheet."

Ari's eyes sweep the crowd; you see—briefly—something like curiosity, then the mask settles back into place. He says nothing more, and that silence becomes a pressure.

Councilwoman Reyes: (turning to you) "Maya, you organized this pilot. The Council supported funding. We need a public posture—do you have an immediate plan?"

Your mouth opens and closes. You could hand a plan over—tactical steps, timelines, a plea for patience. You could invite oversight or nationalize the need for heavy iron and contractors. You could also do nothing, and let the pundits and the night do their work.

Nora (hissing, under her breath): "They're going to press that we failed. They'll frame it as your judgment call, Maya."

You taste the metallic tang of fear—less for yourself than for the people whose porches are now precarious, for the kids who played behind Samir's shed. You are the linchpin in a machine that has no unconditional safety.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Take the Council's mic and promise a full, transparent rebuild") -> Reaction: "You lift your voice over the din. You promise detailed audits, community-led oversight, and an open fund. Your words are raw but take the shape of action—people quiet as if listening for rescue." || Choice B ("Ask Ari to hold off on his sheet piling and propose a joint site review now") -> Reaction: "You call Ari over and, despite the wet at his cuffs, insist on a shared inspection. He jerks, unaccustomed to being asked to slow; his jaw ticks but he agrees to walk the marsh." ]

Luca's lips press together into a line that could be a smile or a bruise. He wants immediate defense; he wants the neighbors' stoops secured in metal and stone. Yet you can feel the politics: sheet piling secures quickly, but it also erases marsh and silences the local hands that care for it.

[Visual: A cameraman pans from neighbor to neighbor, capturing the split faces: fear, accusation, pleading. Neon blinks from a van's insignia: GLOBAL RESILIENCE NEWS.]
[Sound: A recorded statement begins to play from a small speaker—Ari's team is already broadcasting a tightly-worded brief.]

Ari's Aide (from the speaker): "Preliminary analysis suggests design adherence. A formal brief will be issued. Temporary engineering measures are recommended."

The words are smooth and final. They nudge the story toward a technical solution that sidelines the messy communal labor you are part of. You feel the room tilt a degree toward institutional momentum: a plan that looks finished before people's questions are answered.

Neighbor (shouting): "This is what happens when big money decides what's best for us!"

A low, tense chorus of agreement answers the accusation. You can see the fraying in real time: neighbors who once held tool exchange socials now trade pointed stares at one another. Trust, you realize, is like the marsh—its structure unseen until some storm pries it loose.

[Scene: Old Docks Community Hub | Night — later, the group reconvenes to make immediate repairs]
[Visual: Strings of solar lamps cast anxious halos over tarps; tools clink as volunteers hustle; the smell of wet wood and solder fills the air.]
[Music: Percussion-driven urgency; a single cello line pushes forward]
[Sound: Radios crackle; a volunteer coughs; rain drums on the corrugated roof]

You and the core team—Luca, Nora, Samir—are back where the real work is done. The cameras and the Council's lightness have receded into a background roar, but the leak of politics has followed you in. A volunteer holds up a damp printout: the first schematic of the failed section, annotated in pen.

Nora (pointing to a seam): "Look. This joint—if the mat wasn't tied here, water undercut the anchorage. It might be a detail, but it's the kind of detail that eats projects."

You lean in until the paper wrinkles against your forefinger. Details are what you live by: the tolerances, the tensile strengths, the small cross-braces that keep a living shore breathing. But tonight, details sit under the heavier cloth of responsibility and public narrative.

Samir: "The Council will call for an external audit. Devs will say design matched models. Then what? If the city pushes steel in, we lose this place." (He fixes you with his old, patient gaze.) "Maya—I know it's on you. But you're not the only one who can fix it."

Luca: (frustration edging into anger) "You can't keep taking this alone. People are scared of losing everything. Ari's team will build their wall and then the developers will come with their plans."

You feel a hot pressure behind your ribs—an old, familiar thing: guilt that has teeth. It has shaped decisions in the past where you chose control over speed, or speed over consent. You mapped risk like an engineer and an apology like a ritual.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call for an immediate community assembly at dawn") -> Reaction: "You grab the megaphone and lay out a plan: dawn meeting, everyone brings accounts of damage, we crowdsource the labor list. The volunteers nod, the rally point is set." || Choice B ("Draft a technical interim report to send to the Council tonight") -> Reaction: "You set to work with Nora drafting an interim report—precise language, proposed immediate fixes, and a plea for funding. It's cold comfort, but it will land in Reyes' inbox before morning."]

The team splits to follow your small directives. Your mind, always a ledger, now carries two columns: the immediate physical needs and the narrative that will decide funding, blame, and future autonomy.

[Visual: Close-up on your hands as you write contact numbers and a list of emergency materials in the field notebook you always carry. The ink is smudged with salt.]
[Sound: Wind whistles through the Hub's broken seam; a volunteer curses under their breath and laughs two seconds later, the laughter thin but alive]

You look up to see Ari through the open roll-up—a silhouette against the rain, hands in his pockets. He speaks to you without moving, the words clear over the hum.

Ari Nakamura: "If you want resources fast, there's a process we can accelerate. Public-private emergency contract—materials and labor within forty-eight hours."

You hear the offer as if it's both lifeline and leash. You imagine steel planks driven into the soft underbelly of the marsh, water redirected, the immediate danger blunted. You imagine also concrete's long memory: the marsh will remember the filling in and the wet hands that once coaxed life there will be pushed away.

You breathe. For a moment, the world narrows to three options that sit like weights on your chest.

Nora: (soft) "You have to decide how you want to fight this. For people's homes? For the marsh? For both—if that's even possible."

Samir: (slow) "Whatever you choose, remember who has to live with it."

Luca (almost a whisper): "Don't let them write the story without the people who live it."

The rain becomes louder, a percussion that forces the night into a single, harsh tempo. You feel the arousal curve—your pulse, the volunteers' quick steps, the cameras' heavy breaths—surging to its most pressured point.

Everything has been escalating, and now you know the moment is surgical: your answer will reframe the whole thing. It will be a practical strategy and a political signal.

You count the options in your head, each a different moral architecture. You can promise the neighborhood its autonomy back and ask them to rebuild beside you—slow, messy, communal. You can hitch to Ari's capacity and get fast funding bound by oversight. You can tear into the system and reveal the hidden strings that pushed the project into being in ways no one consented to.

Your hands are ink-black and mud-worn. The night waits, breath held.

[Visual: The hub quiets as everyone turns to you; only rain and distant sirens keep speaking.]
[Music: Builds to a fierce, sustained chord that demands motion]
[Sound: A single drumbeat holds as the world narrows to a single question]

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How do you respond to the pilot’s failure?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We rebuild transparently with community control.",
      "target_chapter_id": 6,
      "target_chapter_index": 6,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Negotiate a formal partnership with Ari and the Council.",
      "target_chapter_id": 13,
      "target_chapter_index": 13,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Expose the developers’ hidden influence to force oversight.",
      "target_chapter_id": 14,
      "target_chapter_index": 14,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}