[Scene: City Hall / Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of City Hall façade, glass slick with rain; banners taped to temporary barricades—hand-lettered slogans and tidy municipal placards share the same space.]
[Music: Quiet strings, rising with cautious optimism; a single piano motif threads throughout.]
[Sound: Rain pattering on the building’s awning, distant gulls, the muffled murmur of people gathering; the squeak of rubber soles on wet concrete.]

You step up the shallow steps and feel the city’s breath: a taste of iron and grounds coffee on the air, the cool, clean smell of rain washing the high windows. Your notebook is tucked into your jacket; the brass tidewatcher rests warm against your sternum. For a second you let the weight of that small, steady object center you. It is a ritual almost — a reminder of tides that come whether or not anyone watches them.

[Visual: Cut to the hearing room door opening; strip lights hum like a nervous insect.]
[Sound: A low HVAC rumble under a chorus of folding chairs and paper.]

Inside, the room is an arena of polite tension. Wooden benches worn by years of petitions face a single long table under a merciless strip of light. Banners press against polished wood: "SAVE LOWRY BAY," "SECURE OUR FUTURE," hand-painted images of marsh grass and cyclone-like logos. The air tastes faintly of too-cold coffee and the citrus from the receptionist’s barely-concealed hand sanitizer.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Smooth your notes, organize the data one more time") -> Reaction: "You flip through the pages, fingers tracing graphs and model outputs until the world narrows to lines and annotations; the science steadies your pulse." || Choice B ("Touch the tidewatcher pendant, feel the rhythm of the bay") -> Reaction: "You curl your thumb over the brass, imagining the slow inhalation of the tides. The memory of Ruben's laugh and Asha's focused eyes folds into you; it steadies you in a different way."]

[Visual: Jonah Hale enters from the far side; his raincoat hangs clean and deliberate. The camera holds on the flash of his silver ring as he arranges his tablet.]
[Music: A reserved, percussive underpinning — firm but not hostile.]

Mayor Lin Park is already seated between the sides, her practical scarf folded neatly, face set to listen. You see Cassian slip into the front row; the braided bracelet at his wrist glints when he catches your eye, and he gives you a small, defiant smile — not a performance, but a vow. Ruben sits with his hands folded, the lines in his face softening when he sees you. Nadia waits by the lectern, letter clutched like a talisman.

The room smells of damp wool and paper, and the lights make every face slightly waxen. You breathe in, counting quietly: one, two. Data and people; the two poles you balance between.

[Visual: Close-up on the microphone, a thin standby hum.]
[Sound: Microphone click, a faint electric vibration.]

You are called. You step up to the lectern and place your notebook down. The strip light catches the damp on your jacket and turns it to a halo of small, pale flashes.

Mira Kestrel: "Mayor Park, members of the council, neighbors — thank you." (You clear your throat; the words feel like stepping stones.) "We have months of measurements from the tidal gardens pilot. Wave attenuation models show significant reduction in shoreline impact where marsh restoration is implemented. The living berms slow surge velocity; they do not just soften waves — they give back habitat and work that can be maintained by local crews."

[Visual: The audience shifts; a murmur of approval from the volunteers near Cassian.]
[Sound: A page turning; a chair creak.]

Mayor Lin Park: "Can you quantify 'significant' for the record, Mira? We need numbers the council can act on."

Mira Kestrel: "Yes." (You flip to the table you promised to make simple: clear percentages, error margins, anticipated timelines.) "On average, modeled attenuation is 18–24% per restored bay segment in typical spring-surge scenarios; in staged storms, the combination of restored marsh and repaired boardwalk access reduces peak shoreline stress by up to 30% along contiguous stretches. Crucially, these are solutions that use locally employable labor, and the cost curve is linear over time rather than the upfront spike a barrier requires."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Keep strictly to the figures, stay clinical") -> Reaction: "You let the numbers do the persuading. Eyes track the charts; there's a clean, efficient truth in that focus." || Choice B ("Weave in a short story about the orchard and the kids") -> Reaction: "You tell them Nadia's letter — a child's line about the orchard's apples and Sunday picnics; the room stills. The statistics now have faces attached, and several people blink as if surprised by the translation."]

Jonah Hale: (leaning forward, voice smooth) "The consortium appreciates the work of volunteers and pilots. But the barrier plan offers measurable, fast protection — a single contract, financing in place, and the engineering can begin within months. Delay risks exposure. We can guarantee reduced flooding to critical infrastructure, and the economic stability will bring jobs now."

You can hear the economy in his words — tidy, rivered, very persuasive. There is truth there and something else: a confidence that a line on a contract can solve what the sea has been uncooperative about.

Cassian leans toward you, lowering his voice so only you hear.

Cassian Rhys: (quiet, urgent) "He makes it sound like a promise, Mira. People will hear 'jobs' and 'guarantee' and feel safe. We need to make sure they hear 'cost' and 'who pays'."

Mira Kestrel: (you whisper back) "We will. I have the lifecycle costs in the packet. I also have Nadia's letter." (You feel the surge of protectiveness — both professional and personal — and you clip it, intentionally, to your delivery.)

Ruben Hale: (when his turn comes, voice gravel-deep) "I've fished these channels fifty years. The orchard used to be a marker of where the sea would stop. Now it leans. We don't want walls that cut us from the water, not everything has to be defended with concrete." (He pauses, eyes on the council.) "We need work we can do in our hands."

Nadia Kestrel: (standing on her small tiptoes at the lectern, reading) "Dear Mayor Park, my class wants to know if we will still have the apple trees. We plant beans with Miss Alvarez. If the barrier goes up, will we still walk to school when it's high tide? Please don't let the orchards drown, from Nadia and Room 4." (Her voice is steady; it lands like a small stone that ripples outward.)

[Visual: Close-up on Mayor Park, her mouth a careful line. The strip light makes the scarf's weave evident.]
Mayor Lin Park: (soft, pragmatic) "These are not easy choices. The consortium brings money and visibility. Local projects bring community ownership and slower scalability. We need a path that doesn't bankrupt the town or sell it out."

You can feel the room tilting toward a calculation, a balancing act. You think of the failed pilot that sits in your memory like a bruise — a project you led that didn't meet expectations and cost trust. The taste of that failure is sharp, but it does not define every possibility. It teaches restraint and humility, and today it offers caution.

Jonah Hale: (firm) "I propose a binding schedule. We build, we protect—"

Mira Kestrel: (cutting in, not aggressively but absolutely) "Jonah, binding schedules only protect structures. They don't protect the social networks that rebuild after a storm, or the skills passed down in boatyards and orchards. A hybrid approach — scaled engineering where absolutely necessary, combined with expanded tidal restoration and job certifications for local crews — gives measurable protection and keeps people invested in place. We can write that into a phased agreement with clear metrics."

Jonah studies you, his cool blue gaze assessing descent into possibility. He does not smile; he appraises.

Jonah Hale: "Phased agreements become excuses for delay. If you add conditions, you slow the whole project. The consortium will look for guarantee language. We are in a moment when speed is safety."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Meet Jonah’s gaze and offer a compromise phrase aloud") -> Reaction: "You hold his look and say, 'Speed without accountability is a false promise.' The phrase lands like a small gauntlet, and someone at the back claps once, unexpectedly." || Choice B ("Catch Cassian's eye instead, let him know you trust him to keep the crowd present") -> Reaction: "You blink in Cassian's direction; he nods like a co-conspirator and starts organizing the volunteers' murmurs into a steady, supportive rhythm. Their presence broadens the room's feeling of possibility."]

Mayor Lin Park: (folding her hands) "Both sides raise valid points. Council needs a recommendation that is both actionable and anchored to community consent. Mira, you've brought data and community testimony. Jonah, the consortium brings capacity. I would like a proposal that the council can present to the voters with one clear question. How do you suggest we frame that question?"

Your chest tightens, the familiar pressure of decision-making. Every option feels like a hinge between keeping people safe and keeping people at home. You can feel the energy leaning upward — an actualization rather than a surrender. The volunteers hum in the background; your people show up. Hope is not naïve here. It's practical: embodied by volunteers, by modeled attenuation, by Nadia's letter.

You take a breath that tastes of salt and coffee and rain. You know this moment is a split — a crossroads the town will walk through together. The microphone hums; the lights make everything feel sharper, more immediate.

You place your palm flat on the lectern, steady.

Mira Kestrel: "Mayor Park, the question for voters should be framed around values and outcomes. Do we prefer a path that emphasizes immediate, engineered security at the cost of community displacement, or do we choose a phased, transparent approach that pairs targeted engineering with nature-based restoration and guarantees for local employment and oversight? Each has trade-offs. We need to be honest about them."

Mayor Lin Park: (slowly) "That is precisely the framing we need. But the council also needs a recommended path."

You inhale again. The room leans toward you, some with hope, some with skepticism, most with the weight of their own decisions.

[Music: Strings swell with a bright, anticipatory chord; the piano motif returns, upbeat.]

This is the moment the town has been building toward. Your past caution sharpens into clarity: the community needs options that are defensible, honest, and actionable. You have at least three ways to move the town forward — each aligned with a different set of values, each asking different sacrifices.

You look at the faces you love and the people you must serve. The vote is looming. The microphone is warm beneath your palm. Outside, the rain has slackened to a rinse; inside, hope hums like a powerline.

[Sound: Microphone hum subtle beneath a beat of silence.]
[Visual: Close-up on your notebook as you consider the phrasing of the council's recommendation.]

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "The town’s vote is looming; how do I move forward?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Negotiate publicly with Jonah for a scaled hybrid plan.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Form an organized grassroots blockade and public campaign with Cassian.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Propose a city-sanctioned pilot that forces a transparent evaluation under Mayor Lin.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}