[Scene: Mira's Childhood Porch | Dusk]
[Visual: The porch is a silhouette against the bruised sky; the sun-bleached eaves you know by heart hold a faint salt crust. Knitted lanterns sway on a line across the yard.]
[Music: Warm, ascending strings with a soft piano undercurrent; the motif is hopeful but threaded with tender, minor chords.]
[Sound: The distant slap of water against pilings, muted laughter from the boardwalk, the soft creak of old wood beneath your hand.]

You run your palm along the sun-bleached eaves, tracing the weathered grain as if reading a map. Each notch is a season — summers of figs and bees, winters of boardwalk repairs, the time your mother taught you to graft an apple branch so it would take. Tonight the wood is cool and slightly damp; the smell of tide and cut grass rides the air. Your brass tidewatcher hangs heavy and honest against your sternum, its metal warm with the motion of your breath.

Cassian stands beside you, thumb restless along your knuckles. When you look at him his hazel eyes are a quiet harbor: steady, not bright with triumph but not broken either. He squeezes your hand, a small contract, and the pressure says more than words will.

Cassian: "They loaded the last boat an hour ago. Nadia said the kids were trying to stack saplings like they were building a fort."

You (Mira): "I saw them. They laughed until their faces were the color of the lanterns."

Cassian: (a half-smile) "You did good today. You did — a lot."

You have a catalogue in your head of what "good" cost. The list sits like a ledger: schoolrooms secured, three blocks enrolled in land trusts, housing stipends calculated, jobs promised in marsh restoration, the Mayor's protection clause signed for the town core. Ruben's cane, inked with new rope bindings, leaned by the orchard path. Jonah retiring a section of his barrier design, planting a living margin instead. The community keeps its heart, though part of its body moves uphill.

You don't let Cassian see how the ledger closes around your throat.

You (Mira): "It doesn't feel like 'good' yet. It feels like choices that keep people alive but take them from their houses."

Cassian: (soft) "Those are the choices that keep people in each other's lives, sometimes. It's not... nothing."

You stare at the porch step, imagining light through the orchard window in May — fireflies that used to thread the branches, Nadia's small shoes left by the back door. The memory is not static; it bends toward the present, towards the people who will carry a piece of this place forward.

Ruben comes up the lane, rain jacket slung over his shoulder, salt in the lines of his face like a map you never thought you'd need to read again. He leans on his cane, breath steaming in the cooling air, and smiles in that way that contains a sermon without a pulpit.

Ruben: "You did the right thing with the stipends, Mira. Folks got options and respect. That—" (he taps the tidewatcher on your chest) "—that saved the evening."

You (Mira): "We could have tried to stall longer. We could have fought until the courts or until the sea dragged the conversation out from under us."

Ruben: (shaking his head) "And when the storm comes, what would you have given them then? Sometimes the bravest thing is to pick a road that keeps others breathing."

You let his words sit like salt on an open wound — it stings, then heals glossy. There's truth in it. There is still the echo of your failed pilot three seasons ago; the memory of marsh plants that didn't root fast enough. That history made you cautious, made this compromise possible.

[Scene: Drowned Orchard — Farewell Festival | Night]
[Visual: Rowboats lit with knitted lanterns drift like constellations. Neighbors pass potted saplings from hand to hand, lifting them to higher ground in a slow, ceremonial chain.]
[Music: Low percussion and a lullaby harmonica line; voices hum and a chorus rises gently.]
[Sound: The slap of oars, murmured blessings, the rustle of leaves in a warm breeze that smells of wet earth and frying fish from a nearby stand.]

You move among the people, carrying a pot of young marsh grass. The soil clings to your gloves; a leaf brushes your wrist. Nadia is there, hoodie bright even in lamplight, her face streaked with tears that glitter like bioluminescent algae.

Nadia: (brisk, protective) "Don't stand so stille— Mira, carry that one. Jim's got his shoelace undone again."

You laugh, and the sound cracks and then holds. People are careful around each other with the edges of their sorrow; they tuck grief into preparedness, stitch loss into action. The festival is not only farewells but an affirmation — pots of orchard saplings for new yards inland, a mural planned to commemorate the streets that must be left behind. You hand a sapling to an elderly neighbor whose house is on the list; she squeezes your fingers and then sends the plant forward with a force that surprises you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Pick up the harmonica Cassian offers and play a line") -> Reaction: "You lift the harmonica to your lips; the note quivers but steadies, joining the chorus. Cassian smiles like the whole town has folded into a single breath." || Choice B ("Carry an extra crate of saplings to the landing") -> Reaction: "You shoulder the crate; the wood is damp, the pots warm. Each step toward higher ground feels like an offering." || Choice C ("Stand back and take photographs for the archive") -> Reaction: "You let your lens collect the way people hold each other; later the images will be proof that they chose together."]

Cassian: (teasing) "You making any bad noise with my harmonica?"

You (Mira): "If I do, promise not to laugh."

Cassian: (laughs) "Never. Only gentle sighs of admiration."

The micro-choice folds into a small, ordinary joy. The festival goes on — soup pots, a kid's chorus, a muralist sketching the outline of the lost blocks in brave cobalt strokes. Boats return with hands empty and hearts heavier in the best and worst way. The living margins are being planted even as the work crews stack temporary cofferdams at the edges of the boardwalk. People talk in low, urgent plans about job training in marsh restoration — who will run the new nursery, which high school class will get a field trip to Tidelab.

[Scene: City Hall — Signing the Protection Clause | Morning]
[Visual: The council chamber is washed in cool, bureaucratic light; a long table holds pens, blueprints, and a neatly folded protection clause. Cameras hover at the edges like gulls.]
[Music: A steady, hopeful cello line; undertone of cautious triumph.]
[Sound: A pen scratching, phones whispering, a subdued round of applause.]

Mayor Lin: (worn but resolute) "This clause preserves the town core and guarantees school funding for the next five years. It codifies the land trusts and the relocation support. We hold what must be held."

You (Mira): "And the job guarantees? The training programs? The marsh nursery partnerships?"

Asha: (practical, bright) "We have curriculum scheduled at Tidelab, internships lined up with the restoration teams, and a pathway to cooperative ownership of the nursery. Funding for the first two years is secured through the package."

Jonah stands at the end of the table. His coat, still neat, carries the faint smell of wet concrete and machine oil — the scent of plans realized and altered. He meets your gaze with an expression that reads neither surrender nor victory, but a businesslike sadness softened around the edges.

Jonah: "I pulled back the western bulkhead plan. The data Asha presented showed we could hybridize the design and get equal protection for the boardwalk core while allowing living margins to do the work at the bay's edge. It's a pragmatic pivot."

You (Mira): (exhaling) "And the displaced parcels? The mitigation funds?"

Jonah: "Allocated. And the design team will consult with the cooperative to integrate living berms into the revetment. It's not everything anyone wanted, but it reduces displacement and buys ecological function."

Mayor Lin signs. The pen clicks; there is a small, reverent silence. Cameras flash like a late spring thunder that doesn't bruise.

Mayor Lin: (to the room) "We will measure and report. We will keep accountability. This town is not a bargaining chip."

Asha: (softly) "We proceed with pilots in three weeks. We start hiring next month."

Ruben: (to you, quietly) "You pushed for a transparent plan. That bears on you the weight of bones and water. Carry it carefully."

You (Mira): "I will. I have to."

Jonah (after a beat): "You asked for transparency. I'll make sure the technical reviews are open. If something risks harm, you'll know."

His tone is unexpectedly conciliatory. He hands you a copy of the revised schematic with the living margins sketched in by Asha's team. You thumb the paper and feel something like a truce.

[Scene: Tidelab Greenhouse — Training Day | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Amber horticultural lamps hum as volunteers kneel at trays of seedlings. The greenhouse smells of peat and nutrient solution; water drips in gentle, steady rhythms.]
[Music: Upright piano and light percussion; the mood is industrious and warm.]
[Sound: The soft clink of tools, murmured instructions, a child's delighted exclamation at a sprout.]

Asha guides a cluster of volunteers through propagating spartina plugs. You stand at a bench beside her, hands in damp soil, teaching like you taught once before and will teach again.

Asha: "Press gently. Rooting is a negotiation. Too firm and you crush the tender bits; too loose and there is no hold."

You (Mira): "We plant for patience and for the possibility of surprise."

Volunteer: (hopeful) "Will this really hold the shoreline?"

Asha: "It will with time and care. This is a long game. But it's a game we can all be in."

Nadia, sleeves rolled to the elbow, signs up a dozen teenagers for the inaugural restoration crew. The training program is small at first — a few weeks of hands-on work, stipends enough to buy a new pair of boots and a steadying paycheck. Yet the faces that gather around the nursery are not hollow; they are engaged, eager to anchor their future to the living earth of the bay.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Volunteer to lead the next restoration team") -> Reaction: "You raise your hand. The team looks at you like a captain; the seed trays suddenly feel like a row of small futures." || Choice B ("Coordinate the mural sketches with Cassian") -> Reaction: "You bend over the sketches with Cassian, tracing the lines that will remember what must be left; it steadies you to make art of grief." ]

Cassian finds you by a window, paint-stained fingers tapping an idea into the margin of a sketch. He leans close; his breath smells faintly of salt and tea.

Cassian: "For the mural, I was thinking a map — but not a map of streets. A map of what the town does: the markets, the nursery, the orchard, the places people made festivals. A living map people can add to."

You (Mira): "A place-memory mural. I like that."

Cassian: "And a panel for those blocks. Names, saplings — and a space where anyone who wants can write what they carried with them."

You (Mira): "I want that. I want people to be able to hold what they lost and use it."

Cassian: (quiet) "We rebuild with what remains. We plant new things and keep the old prayers."

[Scene: Boardwalk — Evening of Farewells | Dusk]
[Visual: The boardwalk thrums with the soft cadence of people speaking to their neighbors. A muralist makes a first stroke on a blank wall; the image is only a seed but the promise is visible.]
[Music: A hopeful swell; voices overlap into a gentle chorus. Harmonica returns, threaded by someone humming an old sea shanty.]
[Sound: The tide ticking against pilings, the rustle of coats, the soft shuffle of crates.]

You stand with Cassian beneath the first knitted lantern. The last of the boats have left with potted trees that will root on higher ground. Jonah and Mayor Lin walk past, talking in low, businesslike tones; you catch a single phrase — "community stewardship" — and it untangles a knot you didn't know you still carried.

Nadia pulls you into a quick, tight hug. She smells like the orchard and the day-old soup.

Nadia: "Promise me one thing."

You (Mira): "Anything."

Nadia: "If you go, take Dad's crooked spoon. He always said the spoon kept the soup from getting lost."

You laugh, a sound that breaks and rebuilds, and promise. Small superstitions make the world whole in a way contracts cannot.

Cassian: (squeezing your hand) "Whatever you choose at the porch tonight — I choose to be with you in it."

You (Mira): "I know. That makes it easier and harder all at once."

Cassian: "Good. That's usually the sweet spot."

You turn to watch the muralist, watching seemingly ordinary hands create an emblem that will anchor memory for the whole town.

[Scene: Mira's Childhood Porch — Night]
[Visual: The porch light is low. The house behind you is quiet, the hush of rooms where voices used to rise sad and silly in equal measure. The knitted lanterns cast soft, swaying ellipses across the yard.]
[Music: The hopeful string motif returns, warmer now, richer. A soft single violin holds a sustained, upward note — not triumphant, but resolutely forward.]
[Sound: Night tides, a single owl, the breath of someone standing very close.]

You stand at the threshold again, your palm on the doorknob. The town has made a decision that keeps most of us connected: Mayor Lin signed, Jonah accepted hybrid margins, the nursery will open, the mural will remember. That scaffolding is in place. People are moving — not because they had no choice, but because choice arrived wrapped in support and the belief that continuity is possible even when homes change address.

Your chest is a small, tight harbor of everything you did and everything you could not prevent. Guilt rises like sea-spray and recedes polite and hollow; there's triumph braided through it, like seasalt in a loaf.

You look at Cassian. He waits with a patience that is a balm. His thumb finds the seam of your palm again. You breathe and feel the tidewatcher warm beneath your throat.

Cassian: "You don't have to make any grand pronouncements. Just—do you want me there if you step off this porch?"

You (Mira): "Yes. I want you there."

Cassian: (a soft laugh) "Then I'll be right where you need me."

You can almost feel the weight of the town's future shifting to accommodate the houses on higher ground: schools stable, markets preserved, nursery hands busy with seedlings that will be roots for more than plants. There is love braided to loss, practical plans braided to memory.

The decision you must make now is not the grand, community-level choice — that has been made and anchored — but the intimate one: whether you will leave this threshold tonight and move with the others, carry a bit of the orchard into a new yard, or stay and watch the sea take the street in incremental, terrible ways. Both paths demand sacrifice; both promise a different kind of keeping.

Your hand tightens on the knob. The air tastes faintly of peat and paint and lemon from someone who was cleaning jars for the festival. The knitted lanterns sway. The violin note unfurls and holds.

You inhale. You don't step forward yet.

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}