[Scene: Town Hall (retrofitted gymnasium) | Dusk]
[Visual: Folding chairs in messy rows; a projection screen glows pale at the front. Fluorescent lights buzz. Hand-drawn maps taped to the walls ripple slightly in the draft from the open gym doors.]
[Sound: A low murmur of voices; the scrape of a chair leg; the soft beep of a tablet refresh.]
[Music: Tense BGM — a tight string ostinato under a slow, urgent pulse]

You step off the last folding chair and toward the podium as if toward a small cliff. The linen blouse under your worn navy blazer feels thin against the night air; your Moleskine is open at the page with marsh-mat diagrams and tide projections, its spine creaking like an old hinge. Dust and coffee and the metallic tang of nerves hang thick in the room. Every breath tastes like paper and salt.

Tomas is at the front row, carved cane set between his knees, eyes fixed on you with the patient worry of someone who remembers every floodline. Lupe's fingers drum a stack of cooperative records like a pulse you can almost count. Dana stands near the entrance, a protest banner looped over her arm, jaw tight; she smells faintly of paint and printer toner. Mayor Rosa clutches a bundle of petitions as if they were talismans for a divided town. Jonah leans against a pillar—sea-glass blue eyes hooded, posture compact as a knot in a rope. Elias stands by the projection screen, immaculately composed; an AR schematic flares over his leather folio, glossy seawalls and a distant offshore platform rotating in simulated sunlight.

You feel the room turn inward on you, a tide of faces waiting to see which line you'll draw. Guilt sits under your ribs, a cold weight that makes your tongue thick. The storm model Ava flagged—eight days out—presses at the back of your skull like a clock you can hear though no one else in the room will yet name its beat.

[Visual: Close-up on your bracelet—the braided blue cord, salt-darkened. Your thumb rubs it once, habit and an anchor.]
You think: People will ask for certainty and you have only tradeoffs. You have maps and models and memory. That will have to be enough.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Look to Jonah for support") -> Reaction: "You tilt your head toward Jonah. His jaw eases for a breath; his eyes meet yours with something like resolve, then close again as he breathes out. You take that small steadiness into the first sentence you shape." || Choice B ("Scan Elias' AR schematic for a flaw") -> Reaction: "You let your eyes sharpen on Elias' rotating design. The model is slick; you pick out a pattern of clipped bathymetry and optimistic fish resiliency lines. It claws at your throat—evidence and suspicion in equal measure."]

You inhale, let the air fill the hollow in your chest, and step up. The podium is warm under your palms; the varnish smells faintly of lemon oil and old hands. You don't want to start a war in a room that needs to choose how it will keep breathing.

Maia Rivera: "Thank you, everyone. I'll keep this brief. We all know why we're here."

Elias (smooth, controlled): "Before we begin, Maia—if I might—I'll run the proposal steps on-screen. Our approach combines engineered coastal defenses with modular renewable platforms. It funds regional resilience at a scale Marisol can't achieve alone."

You hear the words and taste metal. Funding, scale, resilience—terms that paper over places people live.

Jonah (stepping forward, voice tight): "And what about fish migration corridors? Our nets—our income—moves with the currents, not the PR slides."

Elias (tilting his head slightly): "We ran migration simulations. With adaptive windowing and habitat offsets, disruptions will be minimized. The platform benefits fisheries through increased local energy and stabilization of inlet flow."

Jonah (cutting in, louder): "You mean 'offsets' where you take our grounds and call it a wash. History shows offsets are a paper trick."

Lupe (too quickly): "But the jobs—Elias, you said local hires, right? My books need work. People need money now—"

Dana (sharp, exhaling): "And you hand us a slick plan with corporate stamps and call it community? That's colonization in a new suit. Where's the accountability? Who signs off when the platform reroutes fish away from the cooperatives?"

The room fractures into small eruptions—angry whispers, the rustle of petitions, someone coughing hard enough to silence the undercurrent. The projection glows like a promise being chewed at by small, hungry teeth.

You feel the guilt spike, an ember flaring in your throat: if you stop progress, people who already struggle may lose steady incomes. If you accept Elias' plan, you hand a chunk of the coast's agency to a firm whose maps don't hold memory. The storm deadline is a knife-edge under this debate.

Ava pushes through the aisle, breathless, tablet in hand. Her high-visibility vest creaks with the movement; her face is pale under the gym lights.

Ava: "Maia—I've updated the model with the latest ensemble. The storm track converges on Marisol in eight days. Intensity range is high-probability; surge could exceed historical maxima if the wall doesn't break the swell pattern as designed."

Elias (fast, professional calm): "That's exactly why coordinated, engineered defense matters. Waiting for community projects will be too slow for an event within days."

You close your eyes for a fraction of a second—an almost blink—but the lights are relentless. Tomas coughs softly, old lungs reacting to stress and dust. He reaches up and taps the cane like a metronome.

Tomas (quiet, with a rough lovingness): "We learned to read the sea in our bones. But we need anchors that don't strip our stories. Maia, whatever you choose—I trust you to choose our people."

The trust is a thin thread and your hands are full of maps.

Maia Rivera: "Elias, the community's concern isn't just a technical parameter. It's cultural—it's livelihoods. Your 'offsets' and 'adaptive windows' are jargon when someone's nets come up empty. Will you guarantee access? Oversight? A local seat on the board with veto power?"

Elias (measured): "We can negotiate governance. We're offering funding for a local trust. But it—"

Dana (interrupting, voice raw): "Trust? You call it trust and expect us to sign away our coast. How many times have we been promised 'trust' and then watched permits move through a conference room while our boats sat idle?"

Mayor Rosa (standing, palms flat on a petition she tucks against her chest): "We have state funds waiting but they lean toward large-scale projects. People want certainty, Mayor—this town is tired of being last in line when the money rolls in. Maia, you have to tell us which path gives the most protection, fastest."

Your pulse feels like someone else hitting a snare drum in your ribs. The room tilts—voices layered, people speaking over one another. Lupe looks at you with the small, raw question of someone who keeps the books. Jonah's hands are balled in his jacket pockets; he is holding himself taut.

You remember the night the boathouse went under—water in the rafters, Tomas' coughing—how helpless you felt trying to translate data into rescue. That memory sticks to the inside of your jaw. The storm model Ava brought is not a rumor; it's a clock. You can feel eight days counting down like a fistful of sand.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Open the floor to a structured Q&A to buy time") -> Reaction: "You take a breath and propose a timed debate: two speakers per side, three minutes each. The room shifts—procedures make some people calm. Dana glares but nods; Jonah gives you a look that admits relief. You buy minutes, but the clock on the storm doesn't pause." || Choice B ("Call Elias out on the model's assumptions now") -> Reaction: "You point at the AR schematic and ask for the raw data: bathymetry, fish telemetry, offset accounting. Elias' jaw tightens; he offers a promised follow-up. The room snaps a little—trust frays thicker and faster. You risk fracturing the middle that might want compromise."]

The intensity ratchets up. Voices press in like tidewater against a bulkhead, each person bringing a piece of the town's grief and hope to the argument. You are the place where those pressures meet. Your hands itch to lay out the science and the maps and the real constraints, but words are not a guarantee against waves.

Elias steps forward, the projection folding from a shiny sell into a series of graphs. He speaks slower now, as if to teach a child how the components fit.

Elias: "We can phase construction. We can prioritize the inlet channel to preserve migratory routes. We can fund a community oversight council. This isn't about taking—it's about partnering."

Dana: (scoffs) "Partnership with a unilateral power balance. You talk about phasing like it's a gentle thing. You don't understand the way the sea is in our bones."

Jonah: "We understand contracts and boards. We've signed our names before and had them mean nothing when the tide changed."

Lupe (frustration undercutting her hope): "We're not against safety. We're tired of being told to wait for someone from outside to tell us how to save our homes."

Ava presses against you, urgent, close enough for the scent of salt and printer toner to mingle.

Ava: (whisper) "Maia—politically, Rosa needs a path. The state money will be redirected if she rejects Elias publicly tonight. If you call for outright rejection, we might preserve control, but we could lose the funding pipeline and time. If we negotiate, we risk being steamrolled. If we ask for an audit, we delay and could be accused of grandstanding."

You can feel your ribs tightening until breath is thin. The options are a set of cliffs and the sea is already rising.

Mayor Rosa: (voice trembling, then steadier) "We need leadership. Maia, the town looks to you. Tell us—do we stand on our own, do we negotiate, or do we buy time to check their numbers?"

Silence erupts like a wave pulled back—anticipatory, raw. Every face is an accusation and a plea. Jonah's jaw works; Dana's hands tremble; Elias' eyes narrow in the way of people used to winning boardrooms. The weight of eight days presses like a hand over your mouth.

Your heartbeat is the metronome of the town's fate. It drums faster, syncopated now with the ticking of a world that has already lost too much. You can feel the swell of panic—how it would sound in a storm siren, how it smells like rain on burnt algae. This is not a theoretical exercise; this is people and boats and memory.

Your mouth opens and you can already feel the taste of what you might say. But a final thought—sharp and cold—cuts through the rush: any line you draw tonight will be a wound as much as a shield. There will be consequences whether you name them now or let indecision let the tide take things on its own.

You look across the room one last time. Tomas' face is unreadable with decades of seasons carved into it. Jonah's posture is a held breath. Lupe's eyes glisten. Dana's jaw is a set plate. Ava's tablet refreshes with the model and the time stamp—eight days. Elias folds his hands and waits with the clinical patience of someone used to deliverables.

You inhale. The room contracts to the sound of your lungs.

Maia Rivera: "I—"

[Visual: The camera lingers on your hand hovering above the podium, Moleskine open beneath it. The projection flutters between glossy render and raw data. The fluorescent lights hum like an electric tide.]
[Music: Tense BGM tightens to a high, insistent rhythm]

You have to decide how to speak your country's name into existence in this room—to call for resistance, compromise, or caution. The storm does not pause for ceremony.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Decide the public stance and pathway for Marisol Bay.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "I call for an immediate community-led restoration plan, rejecting the corporate proposal.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "I open formal negotiations with Elias for a partnership, seeking concessions.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "I ask for more time and quietly task Ava to audit Elias's impact studies—seek truth before choosing.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}