[Scene: Green Spire Rooftop | Night — Rain Drumming]

[Visual: Wide shot of the Green Spire rooftop, rain streaking down vertical gardens; salvaged pilings and tool benches silhouette against the harbor]
[Music: Pulsing, urgent BGM — bright strings under driving percussion]
[Sound: Rain on corrugated metal, the rhythmic slap of water against pilings, distant horns muffled by weather]
[Smell: Wet soil, cold salt, hot metal from fresh welds]

You came up when the room had given you the nod: Option A. You chose to stand with Elliot — a deliberate, loud thing in the small language of your life: hands in dirt, plans in public, people in the middle. The choice still hums under your ribs like a live wire as you step onto the deck.

Elliot is already there, shoulders hunched against the rain in that reworked smock of his, hair flattening into a salt-streaked fringe. Seed vial against his chest bobs as he moves; soil stains at his temples make him look like a map of the work — smudged, earnest, open to fixes.

Elliot Chen: "You're late." (He grins; the accusation is warm, like the first hand to the last bolt.)

You (Maya Rios): "Traffic." (You say it flat, but you toss him the multi-tool anyway, the way you hand over responsibility to measure when you're ready for someone to be right.)

Narration: The work is immediate. Panels clack against each other — reed core, braided root-mesh, salvaged glass frames — rough and beautiful, like a thing born out of necessity. Your fingers, smaller than the panels, find purchase; your muscles remember the mathematics of tension, the little rituals that make scaffolds honest. Elliot's voice sketches an idea and then revises it two sentences later; you answer with numbers and a correction that improves the plan.

Elliot Chen: "If we anchor at this depth, the pilings will flex but not fail. Too shallow and the storm has it for lunch; too deep and we over-commit materials." (He turns the caliper in his hand, rain sliding off the glowing moss-filtered light overhead.)

You (Maya Rios): "We don't have luxury for 'too deep.' We need a compromise that keeps neighbor floors dry and keeps our budget honest." (You feel the edge of the old reflex — protect first, explain later — and you let it rest against the work instead of letting it cut.)

Narration: The pace is a ladder: lift, measure, braid, lash. Each motion speeds the next. Your hazel eyes narrow into concentration, counting thread, distance, friction. Sweat and rain mingle at the back of your neck; the pendant at your throat flickers when the generator hiccups, then steadies. When a stubborn vine refuses to seat in the mesh and snaps back, it makes you laugh — a sharp, surprised sound you didn't expect tonight. Elliot looks at you like he's seen sunlight through cloud.

Elliot Chen: "You're laughing." (He sounds like he's savoring it.)

You (Maya Rios): "It tried to bite me." (You wipe mud from your hand on your trousers, and for a second the room is only hands and the wet sound of fabric.)

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Tighten the lower anchor by half a turn") -> Reaction: "You tighten the bolt, fingers cold and precise. The panel gives a different, steadier note under load and your chest unclenches a fraction." || Choice B ("Adjust the braid pattern to redistribute tension") -> Reaction: "You reweave the root-mesh slowly, breath counting the loops. The braid settles into a quieter strength and you feel the small satisfaction of a problem rebalanced."]

Narration: Sami arrives like a sunburst through the rain: neon lifevest under a light coat, braid whipping, a battered messenger bag banging against their hip. They hand you a thermos that steams in the damp air and a sheet with names scribbled in different inks — neighbors who will show up to hoist, to sew, to test, to be counted on.

Sami Alvarez: "List says twelve confirmed, five maybe, and Mrs. Cortez wants us to come by with extra blankets in the morning." (They speak fast, giving you facts like an offering.)

You (Maya Rios): "Tell Mrs. Cortez we'll run a line for her front stoop first thing." (You take the thermos; the heat jerks you awake. The smell of sweet, overbrewed coffee undercuts the metal tang of tools.)

Elliot Chen: "That's— that's great. Sami, you are a miracle worker." (He's genuinely surprised, and it's the kind of surprise that lights him up.)

Sami Alvarez: "Miracle worker? I deliver shrimp and bad news." (They grin, then soften.) "Either way—we're in."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Sip the coffee and keep working") -> Reaction: "You tilt the thermos, the warmth cuts the cold into beer-thin pieces. The caffeine sharpens the edges and you double-knot a line without thinking." || Choice B ("Hand the thermos back and tell Sami to take five") -> Reaction: "You hold the thermos out. Sami takes it like a lifeline and hums, recharged; you catch their grateful grin like a small victory that belongs to more than you."]

Narration: The prototype is rough. Reed panels rattle in the wind. Reclaimed glass glints like teeth. Elliot's irrigation rig — a jury-rigged convolution of tubing, salvaged pump, and a hacked tide sensor — hums a nervous little tune when you start the test. Water trickles, beads, sluices through the root mesh. You expect leaks, collapse, the cheap little panic that comes when prototypes are honest.

But the design sings when it holds water.

Sound: A clear, bright note of success — water pooled where it should, capillary action moving steadily along the reed, irrigation cycling on a timed pulse. Moss-filtered light pools on your boots; the glow makes the wet wood look like a new map.

Elliot Chen: "Look at that." (He can't hide the childishness in his voice. His eyes—soft green, round and bright—are reflected in the standing water.)

You (Maya Rios): "That's not a 'look.' That's an 'our work didn't fail.'" (You let the sentence be more tender than you usually allow. It lands between you both like a bridge.)

Narration: The rooftop buzzes as neighbors come up the stairs two-by-two, rain-coated and beaming. Hands slap shoulder-highs. Someone starts a chant — not angry, but buoyant. Your chest pushes against a sudden swell of feeling: this is why you refuse to shoulder everything alone. You can see the network forming in wet coats and callused palms.

Neighbor (off): "We can do a full run at low tide—Saturday?"

You (Maya Rios): "We run at low tide." (It leaves your mouth before the second thought can hitch it.)

Elliot moves closer while you are still breathing the success. He wipes rain from a panel with the back of his wrist, leaving a smear of soil that looks like a signature. There's that pause where the city seems to tilt toward the two of you; the rain is just a percussion track to your heartbeats.

Elliot Chen: "Maya—" (He hesitates, then speaks faster, practical and fumbling and desperate to be right.) "Listen. This—this prototype, it needs a champion with technical know-how and political teeth. You have both. I want to ask — would you co-lead the pilot?"

Narration: He says it like he's asking for a teammate. He says it like he's offering you the plan and hedging it with kindness. He says it quietly, almost offhand, but the rain stops for a breath and the rooftop tightens.

You (Maya Rios): (You don't answer immediately. You feel the old habit of taking responsibility flex like a muscle. Letting someone else share the load tastes like surrender and like sunlight both. You think of the ledger of losses that shaped you, and you think of a brother's laugh once, once, on a different shore. You think of the city and the fact that no one person can hold a tide.)

Elliot Chen: "I mean—technically, politically, and—" (He rubs his palm against his forehead, then looks at you properly.) "—personally. I don't want to do this with anyone else. Not if you're not in."

Narration: Sami whistles low and somewhere a neighbor claps. The sound is small, but it punches a hole in your caution. Your fingers are still wet with the prototype's water; when you close them, saline pools in the creases. Fear threads through your chest — the fear you always carry that asking for help will mean you lose the thing you protect most. But under that fear is another current: relief that isn't the absence of grief but its redirection.

You can feel the moment stretching, a taut line that wants to snap into motion.

[Visual: Close on your face; rain beads on your lashes; the glow from the prototype ripples across your skin]
[Music: Crescendo — bright, urgent strings with a steady driving drum; highest arousal point]

Narration: Everything presses forward: hands on panels, neighbor voices rising, the wind making the scaffolding sing. Elliot's question hangs between the salt and the light like an offered hand.

[Page-Turn: He's asking you to share not just plans but the weight of every decision you'll have to make. The rooftop seems to tilt toward possibility. You inhale the cold, fiber-scented air, and for a long beat the world narrows to the length of the bridge you might build with him.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{ "has_choice": false, "description": "", "options": [], "root_default_next_chapter": 5 }