[Scene: Glass Council Chambers | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Wide shot of the glass-paneled chamber; stormlight slashes the floor. Projected maps pulse along a wall. Rows of seats hold city staff and press; the Old Docks contingent clusters near the back. A single wooden podium stands in the center, reflecting a smear of rain on its lacquer.]
[Music: Tense BGM — low, insistent strings with a rising pulse]
[Sound: Distant thunder; rain patters on the glass canopy in a steady staccato]

You step into the chamber with the salt still in your hair and the weight of the Hub in your shoulders. The air inside is oddly clinical — conditioned cool that fights the humid breath of the storm outside. Your notebook is a hard thing in your hand, its pages full of names you promised not to let be reduced to numbers. Your pen feels like a small, brittle promise.

People turn. Not rudeness — the room is listening for reasons, for the precise phrase that will let them go home believing something will hold. You hear the whisper of fabric and the scrape of chairs, the modular carpet swallowing footsteps as everyone sizes the moment the same way you do.

At the front, Ari stands beside a holo-render: a monolithic curve of steel and glass traced over the shoreline. It gleams under artificial sun. His voice is cool and certain as he cues a flythrough that shows cameras, sensors, and a city protected in clean, unbroken lines.

Ari Nakamura: "This is not idealism. It's survivability. A flagship seawall with integrated canopy systems — it reduces inundation by seventy percent under the projected worst-case scenario and creates a replicable model for the entire coast."

He speaks in crisp sentences, each metric laid like a tile. You can see the room leaning in — the numbers are tempting in their clarity. Council displays nod; the timeline glows in white-blue on the wall. The image of the city behind the wall looks polite and intact, like a photograph staged for an insurance ad.

Luca sits a row behind you, fingers curling around his rope-belt. When he stands to answer, he brings the smell of wet tar and fish with him — an aroma that anchors the photographs in your head to real small hands and stained porches.

Luca Chen: "Shelves of numbers don't hold memories. They don't hold the smell of coffee from Samir's cart or Nori's sewing table. If you build a wall that costs our people their homes, what have we defended? Some skyline for investors and empty promises to the rest of us?"

He doesn't scream. He doesn't need to. His voice is hot with a kind of righteous exhaustion, the sort that has been kept in until now. He faces the council and then turns, briefly, to you — something like accusation and something like hope braided together.

Samir shifts in his seat. When he speaks, his voice is slow and granular like driftwood.

Samir Qureshi: "We chased tides before. We learned where to plant the stakes. My father taught me that the sea is not an enemy if you know how to listen. But when someone comes with a map and a bulldozer and calls it safety, the memory gets buried under concrete."

Nora cracks a wry little laugh that doesn't reach her eyes and keeps you grounded — she passes you a scrap of paper with last-minute tide variance notes compressed into a cadence only you two understand.

Nora Díaz: (softly) "Pilot's metrics, revised. Look at sweep factor three. If we can shift sediment transport by—"

Her voice is practical; the Chamber is not. She sits back down, and in the folding between her shoulders you see how much this has cost everyone who shows up to argue.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Tuck the notebook into the podium before standing") -> Reaction: "You slide the notebook into the podium's lip, fingers brushing the wood. The action steadies the tremor at your wrist; it feels like putting your chest behind a door." || Choice B ("Clutch the notebook to your chest and stand with it") -> Reaction: "You hold the notebook against your sternum as if it were a tidal gauge. The crowd sees the visible weight you carry; your knees feel hollow for a second."]

[Visual: Camera pans to Councilwoman Reyes at the dais — composed, slate in hand. Her expression is an even mask, but her eyes flick to the projected timeline and then to the faces in the room.]
Councilwoman Elena Reyes: "The Council must be pragmatic. We cannot ask people to wait while storms get stronger. We must balance equity with expediency. Ms. Ortega—"

Her voice steers the room back toward you. The phrase "Ms. Ortega" lands like a gavel. You are the point where friction resolves into a decision. Your mouth is dry with the taste of brine and the memory of one failed pilot that still sits like an ache behind your ribs.

You remember the pilot: the living shoreline you led that lost support when maintenance was delayed and the grant was snatched away. Houses flooded. A neighbor's basement collection of heirlooms sloshed into ruin. You promised yourself then you would never let the neighborhood be stranded by ideals. And yet — the image of concrete swallowing a garden is a different betrayal.

Ari approaches the podium, and his hand brushes the outline of the wall as the render drops into a thermal schematic. He doesn't look at you directly; he presents the plan like an equation.

Ari Nakamura: "I know your history, Maya. I know the pilot had issues. That is why this plan includes funded maintenance, oversight boards, and community-liaison positions. The hybrid model can incorporate living roots at the toe of the wall. We can pilot together — your technical expertise, their capital."

There is an offer in his voice that sounds almost conciliatory. You hear sincerity — the sort that has built careers. But sincerity here can be a beam that supports displacement.

Luca's reply is immediate, a tightening of the jaw that he cannot mask.

Luca Chen: "A partnership on paper can look like control in practice. Who signs the stewardship agreement, Ari? Will residents be the ones deciding how zones are rezoned? Or will we be given a manual and told to bend to projects that kick people out?"

Ari: "These are not mutually exclusive outcomes."

Luca: "They are when the money writes the first line."

The back-and-forth sharpens into something more cutting than policy debate — it is a tug-of-war over language and a fight over whose memory will be respected. The chamber's temperature feels higher now; a projector hums louder. Your pulse accelerates under the calm of your field jacket.

You step toward the podium because the Council has asked you to speak, and because leaving the silence to others would be betrayal. The room narrows into the width of the aisle and the bright eyes of people you've known since childhood.

Inside, anxiety claws; your past failures stack into a ledger. You think of the basement boxes, Samir's muttered prayers over a half-broken tide clock, Nora's tireless nights patching reed plugs. You think of the spreadsheet Ari just showed — neat, clean, efficient — and of Luca's hands that have mended a hundred fishing nets.

Your throat blocks but you force breath, the storm outside answering with a low, rolling thunder.

You: (clearing your throat) "Councilwoman, members of the panel—"

Your voice is a hollow reed at first, then steadier as you arrange the words. You try to be both honest and tactical, to translate grief into policy.

You: "I will not pretend I am immune to the math. I have seen what an engineered plan can deliver in models. But I also know what it does to people when 'efficiency' becomes a displacement machine. My neighborhood is not an experiment to be optimized."

Councilwoman Reyes: (tilting her head) "Ms. Ortega, the city needs a recommendation we can act on. If neither full wall nor pure stewardship is acceptable, present us an option that secures lives and finances."

There it is: act. Act and be judged. The chamber tightens around the word. The press cameras adjust lenses; a small growl of static skitters from someone's recorder. Lights flare on the projected polygon where your choice will redraw lines on the map.

Ari leans forward, hands on the podium rim like he is arguing physics rather than futures.

Ari Nakamura: "We can do a pilot partnership with strict oversight — measurable milestones, community veto gates, escrowed funding for relocation mitigations. This is a path that satisfies citywide obligations while incorporating local knowledge."

Luca slams a palm on his knee — the kind of single motion that spills heat into the room.

Luca Chen: "And when the city needs to show results, who do they show? Will they pick a tidy corner of the marsh with the least resistance and call it 'the community'? We have history with halfway measures that were money-scarce the minute cameras left. I want something that preserves livelihoods, not just optics."

The exchange fractures into silent looks: residents holding hands, the council exchanging quick notes, Nora's jaw working. Samir gazes at you with a patient, carved sadness that feels like a verdict in itself.

Samir Qureshi: "You know the tide lines. You know where the ground has memory. Whatever you say, remember the people who will wake into the first morning after the storm."

Your chest tightens into a physical pain. The room seems to tilt with the weight of everyone's futures balanced on your words. The storm outside rises; thunder raps the glass, a punctuation that seems to demand urgency.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Catch Luca's eye and offer a brief nod") -> Reaction: "You nod once, small and fierce. Luca's shoulders relax minutely, a tether returned. It buys you a moment of steadiness and his gaze that says: Don't sell us out." || Choice B ("Look to Ari and hold his steady for a beat") -> Reaction: "You hold Ari's gaze for a heartbeat. His expression is unreadable — professional, measured. The silence between you tastes like a negotiation. The room waits."]

You can feel the arousal coiling; each exchange pulls further at the string inside you. The chamber is full of people who have already decided in their bones, but they need the public stamp to move. The models, the memories, the municipal ledger — all collide into a single demand: what will you say?

Councilwoman Reyes clears her throat and folds her hands, the motion precise and political.

Councilwoman Elena Reyes: "Ms. Ortega. The record will note your leadership in community pilots. The Council expects a clear recommendation. Will you endorse the living-shoreline stewardship model advocated by your neighbors? Will you accept a negotiated hybrid pilot with our private partner under strict oversight? Or do you have evidence to present that some parties are unduly influencing this process?"

The room exhales as if an invisible valve opened. Cameras tilt. Someone whispers that this is the moment that will end up in headlines. Your failure — or your defense — will ripple beyond these glass panes.

Your mouth feels like the inside of a shell. The past pilot that failed is a raw bruise; the possibility of people displaced is a rupture you refuse to own. The weight of community trust is simultaneously heavier and more fragile than the seawall render.

You stand under the glaring lights, rain sketching silver on the glass behind you. Your heartbeat is thunder. This is the highest point — a pressure that tightens everything to a single choice.

You look at the faces in the room: Luca's insistence, Ari's composed offer, Nora's small hopeful grimace, Samir's steady, tidal memory. The chamber's silence thickens and then snaps with the unasked expectation of thousands who will read the outcome.

You inhale, the damp air filling your lungs, and then you speak — but before the syllables form, the council waits for the exact form of your public stance.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How do you answer the Council’s question in public?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "I will stand with the neighborhood and push for living shorelines.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We will open a partnership to pilot Ari’s hybrid engineering under strict local oversight.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "I have evidence of developer influence and will expose it.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}