[Scene: Old Docks Community Hub | Night]
[Visual: The Hub lit by a single string of solar bulbs; rain pelting the corrugated metal roof throws restless shadows across maps pinned to plywood. Puddles ripple on the floor. Papers and coffee cups crowd a workbench.]
[Music: Tense BGM — staccato strings under a low synth pulse]
[Sound: Hail striking metal, the distant wail of a municipal siren]

You have been awake long enough that the edges of your vision blur into the grain of the paper in front of you. Your notebook lies open but ignored; your fingers track names instead of lines. The municipal database is a chorus of timestamps and footnotes. Every hyperlink you follow is another corridor of sanctioned language leading to the same set of quiet hands.

Nora slides another printout across the table. Her knuckles are still scabbed from yesterday’s repairs; the fluorescent toner has left smudges on her cuffs. She moves like someone who knows the value of speed and the cost of hesitation.

Nora: "This is the subcontract registry. Look at Clause 14—'preferred procurement.' It's not a glitch." (She taps the words with a stained fingertip.) "It routes approval through—through a shell trust that lists the same addresses as the developer's holding."

You breathe in. The air tastes like wet rope and leftover coffee. Your wristband buzzes with a tide reading; you don't feel the numbers so much as the gravity behind them.

You (Maya): "Show me every timestamp that ties those purchases to municipal sign-offs. Cross-reference vendor IDs with the consultant on Ari's proposal."

Nora: (already moving keys) "On it. If this parses the way I think—it's a back channel for influence. They didn't just lobby. They made a path for money." (Her voice drops; she hates the shape of authority that looks like a handshake.)

You lean over the screen. The hit list unfurls: an invoice series disguised as 'materials consulting,' a preference clause that shifts procurement thresholds, addenda signed by an anonymous municipal liaison. The smoking thread is not a single flash; it's a slow burn stitched into bureaucracy.

Internal thought: You catalog the implications like a tally—evictions could be hidden behind faster permitting; contractors with city ties will get the primo contracts; community oversight becomes theater. The guilt that lives in you pings like an alarm. If you hold this, you keep leverage but you also keep the danger. If you release it, you might save people from being blindsided—or you might open the floodgates of retaliation and chaos.

Nora looks up at you, eyes narrowed. Her breath fogs in the cold bulb light.

Nora: "We can pull municipal minutes—this isn't just indirect. There's a meeting note where a vendor rep pre-approves a specification. Someone on the inside amended it." (She exhales.) "Samir's right to want people to know. But the city loves a single narrative. If you go full leak, the story will be sensationalized and the neighborhood could be painted as troublemakers."

You (Maya): "I don't want the neighborhood framed as anything but survivors. But if we sit and bargain, they'll bury it in legalese and we'll get crumbs."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call Luca now") -> Reaction: "You tap Luca's number. The dial tone feels loud in the hush. He answers in two rings, muffled and urgent: 'Where are you? Did you find—' you hear concern turning to steel. If you tell him now, he'll want to mobilize the street teams and the mutual aid channels; he'll push for immediate, visible pressure. It will be messy, fast, human." || Choice B ("Call Ari instead") -> Reaction: "You force your thumb to Ari's contact. His line connects with a soft, professional click: 'Maya. I expected you'd be thorough.' If you call Ari, the conversation will be surgical—an attempt to negotiate containment, reframe the facts, or blunt the fallout with promises and legal cover. It will be cold but possibly less destructive in the short term."] 

You let the screen dim and the choice hang between the lamps. The hub seems to inhale with you.

Footsteps on the dock—slow, measured—announce Samir before he steps inside. He wears the harbor in his movements: a slow certainty, like a boat finding a mooring. He sets down a thermos and pulls his cap low; the room smells a little like old rope and fish oil, and his presence is a hinge.

Samir: "You look like a person carrying weather," he says, more observation than question. (He folds his hands on the table.) "When truth comes, it does not pardon anything. It only removes the curtain."

You (Maya): "And what does that mean for us? For the people who can't pick up stakes if the city decides their block is cheaper to clear?"

Samir: "It means you must measure your bravery by what it will protect, not just what it will expose. But you knew that. You came back with more than a diploma—you came with decisions you didn't have when you were small."

His words land like stones. You have always loved Samir's way of speaking plain truths wrapped in weather. He has watched homes disappear like tides; his counsel carries a residue of losses not yours alone.

Nora: "We can redact names, or we can go raw. The press will eat raw. Redacted—someone will claim we obscured the facts. Raw—someone will call for arrests without understanding the community cost."

Samir: (leaning in) "You are not a prosecutor. You are a keeper of place. Remember who you answer to."

You (Maya): (voice low, strained) "I answer to everyone in this neighborhood. If that finger is pointed at the city, and at the developer—if it proves their early influence—then people's homes, businesses, memories—they'll be bargaining chips."

Nora: "We can make an interim release. A single excerpt with dates and signatures. Let the council scramble. Let them respond before the narrative is set. Or we can drop the whole ledger and let the world see the pattern."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Release a redacted excerpt") -> Reaction: "You imagine a controlled strike—an excerpt highlighting the sequence of approvals, enough to force a formal inquiry but not enough to burn every bridge. The initial uproar will be contained; officials will hold emergency briefings and possibly stonewall, but you keep some room for negotiation." || Choice B ("Publish the full dossier publicly") -> Reaction: "You imagine the chaos of a full dump: the street-level fury, the international media, the lawyers. It might force immediate, sweeping action—or it might ignite reprisals, lawsuits, and a crackdown that flattens the neighborhood's ability to manage its own recovery."] 

The hub feels smaller now, as if the walls are leaning closer to listen. Your hands shake a little when you lift another file—an internal memo that references 'expedited zoning adjustments' dated two weeks before the council vote. The memorandum is signed with initials that match an email Ari uses in municipal briefings. The pattern is sharp, almost cruel in its specificity.

Internal thought: You map consequences in a cold ledger. The leak could topple careers, certainly. It could stop a wall that would displace people. It could also destroy lives in the scramble that follows. The ledger is both weapon and torch; which do you use?

A message flashes: Ari—'Are you attending the Atrium tomorrow? There's a closed session; I can make sure you're on the list.' His tone reads calm. The screen blinks like an accusation.

You (Maya): (to yourself) "He knows how to move in rooms."

You gather the files into a folder, the pile already heavy. Outside, the storm eases and then rises—weather like a held breath. You know manually that the Atrium opens in the morning; you know Ari moves in systems. You feel the edges of a plan forming: threaten public exposure and force transparency, or weaponize the evidence privately and try to negotiate with parameters that protect the neighborhood.

[Scene: Municipal Green Atrium | Early Morning]
[Visual: Glass atrium gleaming wet; the planted mangroves drip with rain. Diffused morning light slices through green walls into teal pools. Security booths throw long shadows along the polished floor.]
[Music: Tense BGM swells — low brass under urgent percussion]
[Sound: The echo of footsteps in a large foyer; a distant announcement about a closed session]

You stand on the slick stone outside the atrium doors, folder in hand. The air is an odd clean now—chlorinated and measured after the raw salt at the docks. The city smells like circulated decisions.

Ari steps out of the atrium with that same precise gait, his jacket dry as if the rain respects him. He watches you with that unreadable look—part calculation, part thinly veiled courtesy.

Ari: (tilting his head) "Maya. I was hoping we'd talk before anyone made a spectacle."

You (Maya): "You can start by telling me why your name is in the minutes that predate procurement approvals."

Ari: (hands folded) "My name's in a lot of places. I advise. I don't sign contracts. The system is larger than one person." (He allows a fraction of a smile.) "Tell me what you found."

You (Maya): (holding the folder like evidence, like a beating heart) "Enough to make the city act if it's believed. Enough to make residents afraid if it's mishandled. Enough to force a public question about influence."

Ari: "You could publish a spectacular piece and push the council into chaos—perhaps prompting emergency protections, or knee-jerk measures that displace people before a thoughtful plan is devised. Or, you could let us sit down and examine the chain together. We create a binding oversight mechanism and I guarantee independent audits. I can get buy-in."

Something in Ari's voice is smooth and insistently reasonable. The offer is a scalpel—precise and potentially surgical.

Luca arrives at the atrium doors, rain beading on his patched jacket. He takes in Ari as if measuring a storm surge.

Luca: (to you, blunt) "You have proof. If you hand it to them quietly, what's to stop them from burying it again? From issuing a report that says 'procedural lapse' and carries on?"

Ari: (coolly) "And if they release it publicly, what happens to liquidity for the hybrid plans on which thousands depend? Panic destroys markets and people."

You (Maya): (voice rising) "We are not a market."

Ari: (softly) "I know that. But I am arguing for a solution that scales."

Luca: "At what cost? You tell me a scale that doesn't flatten people's lives, and I'll listen."

Ari: (eyes on you) "You will be blamed for whatever follows, Maya. Even if you are right, the city will fracture. You want to protect people—do you want to see them scapegoated into further precarity?"

Internal thought: There is a line between public reckoning and public ruin. You read Ari's offer as both a lifeline and a leash. Luca's posture is a protective shell, ready to push and burn. Samir's counsel echoes—measure your bravery by what it will protect.

You feel the folder like a thing that could change the axis of everyone you love. Your pulse drums in your throat. The atrium's glass refracts the morning into shards of possibility.

You realize the moment has arrived: the choice is raw and immediate. You can stand on the ledge of public exposure and force transparency through shock, or you can take a seat at the sterile table Ari proposes and try to bind the city to accountable terms—risking that the binding will be paper-thin.

Your hand tightens on the folder. Your chest is a tangle of obligations—a ledger of names, a list of faces who've trusted you.

[Page-Turn: The folder feels like a tide stone. You are minutes from deciding whether truth becomes a public torrent or a ledger kept for negotiation. Either way, the shorelines of people's lives will be reshaped.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 11
}