[Scene: Town Hall | Night]
[Visual: Interior — low wooden beams gleaming with salt, sodium lamps buzzing overhead; damp coats hang on pegs; a long table cluttered with pamphlets and a chipped ceramic pitcher of water]
[Sound: Muffled tide outside, pockets of conversation like distant gulls; a single chair scrapes as someone shifts]
[Music: A low, wandering cello line underscoring restless tension]

You press the flat of your palm to the cover of your notebook, feeling the familiar ridges of scrawled margins against your fingertips. The smell of the room — fish, wet wool, the sharp citrus of someone’s breath-mint — lays itself over everything like a second skin. Your chest is still tight with the ferry’s salt and the memory of the sea’s edge; tonight that memory feels less like memory and more like a ledger.

Mayor Ansel sits at the head of the table, tweed damp from the rain, his hands folded as if they might stitch the room together. He clears his throat with the same practiced gentleness that masks the town's worry.

Mayor Ansel: "Thank you all for coming. We know this isn’t easy. Seren—" (he gestures, voice fraying on the last word) "—will present first. Then we’ll hear from Dr. Sato and from the community."

There’s an expectant hush like the breath before a tide turns.

[Visual: The door at the back opens with a hungry click. Seren enters, rain-edged hair sticking at her temple, blazer bead-ed with water. Her solar pin flashes once like a wink of calculated certainty. She moves with the calm of someone who has rehearsed the room, and a tablet gleams in her hand.]

Seren: "Mayor, thank you. Good evening, everyone. I’ll keep this brief — clarity is kindness when the coast is changing fast." (She taps the tablet; images bloom on a portable projector: cross-sections of a raised sea wall, timelines stamped with projected arrivals of storms, neat arrows toward 'managed relocation'.)

Her voice is polished, each sentence a tool. The slide of the raised promenade slices across the wall behind her, concrete and engineered rock looking inevitable in the amber light.

Seren: "We propose a phased seawall to protect the core market and the main harborfront, paired with incentives for managed relocation from the lowest-lying blocks. Engineered wetlands will restore some ecological function while buffering storm surge. Funding is ready — public-private partnerships can move this into construction within months."

A ripple runs through the room. You look at the images and feel the cold kernels of practicality Seren pushes forward: efficient, fast, unromantic in its erasure.

Etta stands before you like a relic and a revolt, shawl wrapped tight, voice as rough as she is.

Etta: "Relocation? You mean we’re to pack our history into suitcases while your machines lay claim to the mudflats? I grew up in that mud. My father cut eelgrass with his own hands." (She slams a soaked photograph on the table — a young hand hauling a net, a smile that used to belong to an entire street.) "You can’t buy what the sea gave us."

Seren's mouth tightens. The room tightens with her.

Seren: "Etta, this isn’t buying lives — it’s protecting them. We can’t pretend the sea will wait while we argue about memories."

Etta: "Memories keep us from making fools of ourselves. You can’t measure the market in stories."

Rafi shifts in his seat, camera strap whispering. He leans forward with that look that wants a sharp headline.

Rafi: "Mayor — if we run with the 'managed' angle, the town should know the timeline. Will businesses be compensated? Which blocks first? People deserve to know whether this is help or a takeover."

Mayor Ansel: "We need specifics. Seren, funding is persuasive, but the council — and this town — needs assurances."

Dr. Hana Sato moves with quiet authority to the little whiteboard at the side, fingers tracing a curve of recovery time.

Dr. Hana Sato: "The kelp and eelgrass restorations Seren mentions — they’re beneficial, yes, but biological timelines are years, not months. Eelgrass beds need stable substrates and calm seasons to establish. Engineered wetlands can perform functions quickly, but they are not the same habitat. We must be precise about expectations."

There’s a murmur. The room feels like an old net — taut and ready to snap.

You rise because you have to. The chair creaks under you; the smell of wet leather from your boots mixes with the smell of stale tea. Your fingers are callused where you press the notebook to your side, as if the paper were a talisman.

[Visual: You set the notebook on the table; sketches and small maps peek from beneath the cover — diagrams of eelgrass patches, rooftop garden grids, annotated labor-credit flows. The projector light catches the pen strokes and makes them small islands of ink.]

Maya Kestrel (You): "We need solutions that leverage this town's strength. A mosaic approach — distributed eelgrass restoration, modular breakwaters that let boats through, rooftop gardens tied into rain capture, and a labor-credit program so work is community-led and remunerated locally." (You spread your hands, the gesture more plea than plan.) "We can scale slowly, but with the community holding the maps."

Ilias leans close to you, his wet sleeves dark at the cuff. He doesn’t speak loud; he doesn’t need to. His eyes crinkle — not a show of certainty so much as of raw, private hope.

Ilias: "Dr. Sato’s models support staggered restoration if we get the seed funding and community buys in. It’ll take careful monitoring, but the resiliency gains grow over years." (He glances up, then to you.) "This could work if we can secure microgrants and volunteer days that pay. I can draft sampling protocols."

Seren watches you both with a subtle recalculation. Her expression is patient and sharp: a corporate mind gauging asymmetric threats.

Seren: "Maya, I respect community-driven work. But the scale of the projections indicates catastrophic surge levels in the near term. Incrementalism is noble until it’s too late." (She tap-taps the tablet.) "The seawall and managed relocation avoid immediate loss of life and critical infrastructure. Isn’t that worth prioritizing?"

A hush. Etta's hands twist a net into a knot.

Etta: "Your wall will carve up the beach we fish from. You would wall us in and wall the sea out. What happens to the small boats? To the nets that feed our children?"

Seren: "We can design access points. Mobility plans are part of the build."

Etta: "Design access for what, Seren? For the yachts belonging to your investors?"

Mayor Ansel: (attempting to bridge) "Let's not make this personal. If both sides can identify what must be protected — market, harbor, heritage sites — we could arrange a hybrid scheme. But we need actionable proposals."

Rafi's pen scratches; someone coughs. The air vibrates with unspoken histories.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Slide your rooftop plans across the table toward Seren") -> Reaction: "You push the notebook forward, eyes locked on Seren. For a moment her composure flickers — she studies your diagrams like a negotiator scanning a map for leverage. Her reply is measured, not dismissive: 'Interesting. We could incorporate distributed green infrastructure into phased construction.' The room leans in." || Choice B ("Keep the pages close and appeal to the room") -> Reaction: "You pull the notebook back, fingers curling over the cover, and speak to the crowd instead. Faces turn toward you — Etta's lined map of years, Rafi's hungry journalist tilt, Mayor Ansel's reluctant hope. Your words sound less like a plan and more like a promise, and Ilias gives you a small, steadying nod."] 

Seren's next words are careful — the phrasing of someone who wants to fold you in rather than fold you under.

Seren: "If there is a way to modularize restoration that pairs with a phased wall — not to replace it but to complement it — then we have a more defensible portfolio for funding."

Etta scoffs, but there is something raw behind her scoff: fear carving itself into anger.

Etta: "Complement? You mean you’ll build a monument and call it balancing the books."

Dr. Hana Sato steps in, the scientist's scalpel between art and policy.

Dr. Hana Sato: "Complement is possible, but we must be honest about temporal mismatch. Engineered structures can be installed in a construction season. Biological systems need monitoring years out. Any hybrid must set expectations: what we hold in the short term and what we grow for the long."

Seren: "Agreed. Transparency on timelines."

Rafi: (to Mayor Ansel) "People need to see a timeline and a map now — no more platitudes. If the plan's going to be voted on, the town needs hard dates and financial safeguards."

Mayor Ansel looks exhausted and human, the weight of being the town’s steward pressed into his shoulders.

Mayor Ansel: "I will commission detailed costings, but I need a recommendation from the community council. Can we form a working group that includes Etta, Seren's team, Dr. Sato, Maya, and Ilias?"

You can feel the room tighten. The offer is cooperation — and a slow, bureaucratic engine. You sense your notebook buzzing like a trapped moth with possibilities and compromises.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Agree to the working group with conditions") -> Reaction: "You nod, and your voice is steady. 'I'll join, but the charter must include community oversight terms and enforceable labor credits. No unilateral decisions.' Seren studies the words, then inclines her head. 'Fair,' she says, and the room exhales. It's a fragile accord, but it's an accord." || Choice B ("Refuse the working group — demand immediate guarantees") -> Reaction: "Your refusal comes out sharper than you expect. 'Not unless we get legally binding protections for fishing grounds before any construction.' Silence fattens in the room. Mayor Ansel's jaw tightens. Seren's eyes cool. The meeting loses momentum as if someone cut the rope that held it all up."]

Ilias catches your eye. There is a quick communication in the look — concern wrapped with trust — but you cannot read more than what lays visibly there: a small creasing at the eyes, an eager tilt of the head, a scientist's want to act.

The meeting dissolves into smaller conversations. People cluster under sodium lamps in the fish-scented warmth — Etta and a handful of elders arguing heritage, Rafi whispering potential headlines into his recorder, Seren clicking through more slides with an engineer’s calm, Dr. Sato handing models of recovery curves to anyone who will read them. Mayor Ansel calls the meeting closed for the night, voice frayed but constitutional.

Mayor Ansel: "We’ll reconvene with the working group’s terms drafted. If anyone wants to submit amendments, do so by Thursday."

You feel like the room has parted unevenly, like an old seam strained by a new line of stitching. Outside, the boardwalk waits with its lamps bleeding into fog.

[Scene: High Tide Boardwalk | Night]
[Visual: The boardwalk — sodium lamps swallowed by fog; puddles mirror the muted neon of a 'Harbor Market' sign; the sea beyond the sea wall is a dark, restless thing]
[Sound: Foghorn faint, a roll of distant surf, boots on damp wood]
[Music: Sparse piano, notes spaced like uncertain footsteps]

You step out onto the boardwalk, the cool, damp air slapping at your face. Fog wraps the lamps in gauze, and the town feels smaller and farther apart than it was in the hall. Your notebook is back against your ribs; it feels heavier now, full of obligations and the weight of compromise.

Ilias falls into step beside you, close enough that the cloth of your sleeves nearly touch. He doesn’t reach for your hand; there is too much town between you for that small intimacy. Instead, he offers quiet.

Ilias: "You did what you had to do in there. You made space for the conversation."

You want to ask him whether he thinks the working group will be enough. You want to ask if he believes funding will follow the hybrid. But those are practical questions that skirt the edges of what matters. The heavier ones — who will keep the nets untorn, who will teach the new crews the old knots — are harder to voice and harder still to answer.

Maya Kestrel (You): "I’m afraid of what we might lose while we learn to build what we need." (You feel the words like stones in your mouth.) "If we don’t lock protections into anything, those who come with money will redraw the map."

Ilias: "Then we make sure protections are non-negotiable in the charter. We build monitoring that reports to the community. We don’t let the story be written by the fastest pen." (He glances at you. The fog makes his face a soft, uncertain outline.) "I can start drafting the sampling schedules tonight."

You walk on in silence for a moment. The sodium light pools, then disappears as fog thickens. Your guilt pulses with the tide: did you make the right choice by agreeing to meet the working group, or have you just bought time for plans that might swallow Hearthbend?

The town's seam feels like a wound you can press a thumb to and feel it throb. You imagine the maps Seren showed — grey concrete lines — and the kelp beds you and Ilias sketched in ink. Both feel necessary and insufficient.

[Music: A slow, unresolved chord]

A gust of wet air steals the edge off your certainty. Choices lurk like undertows, all of them plausible and costly. You can already hear the next stage of friction beginning to assemble itself — petitions, late-night drafting, debates with people who will not accept compromise easily. The neighborhood lamps blur into one another, as if the town itself is half-dreaming of the future and half-grieving the present.

You close your notebook, fingers lingering on the spine, and the town appears all at once — stubborn, sea-salted, and waiting.

[Page-turn moment: You hold the notebook to your chest and let the fog press its cool on your face. Somewhere inside the mist, a distant engine hums — the first sound of construction, or the last breath of compromise. You know the next steps will require more than plans: they will need trust, hard bargaining, and sacrifices you still haven’t named.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}