[Scene: City Hall Meeting Room | Dusk]
[Visual: Wide shot of the long polished table, stormlight from the windows slanting across a ledger and a row of glossy model renderings]
[Sound: Rain drums steady against the high panes; a distant city siren fades into the patter]

You walk in carrying the weight of the last three chapters like a wet coat—slick, necessary, unwilling to be shed. The decision from the council room earlier sits behind your ribs: you chose to take Irene's meeting. Now, here you are, under the cold dome of civic light, the city's exhaustion a palpable thing that hums in the room's vents.

The table smells faintly of lemon polish and machine oil. Across from you, Irene Voss is all edges and reflection: the lamp's silver catches her mother-of-pearl brooch and throws a knife of light at your notebook as if to test you. Luca's models glint like scaled promises—smooth concrete, tidy lines, a rendered skyline that refuses to show the mud beneath. Elliot is at the far end, hands tucked, posture open but contained; his eyes find you and hold for a moment that is both an invitation and a question.

[Visual: Close on your hands as they rest on your field notebook; the leather cover is warm from your palm]
[Music: Low, urgent strings begin to rise — quickening the pulse of the scene]

Irene sets the tempo with a practiced smile. "Maya," she says, voice cool and certain (you feel the room tilt toward the clarity of her sentence), "the modeling we've run shows we can protect two-thirds of the harborfront within a single season.Concrete barriers, reinforced revetments—fast procurement, fewer households displaced in the near term. Funding's ready. The city can't wait."

You taste the argument before it lands: immediate security, jobs, a neat accounting of risk. Her words are efficient and they land on the ledger like coins. There is comfort in numbers; there is also the slow erosion of the things those numbers don't show. You remember Dr. Noor's low warning—top-down measures that ignore living systems often fail their ecological promises—and you weigh the memory against the faces you know in the room.

You speak. You use the word "concession" like a bridge. "We are not asking for obstruction," you tell Irene. "We're asking for guardrails—community oversight, explicit housing protections, and at least one living-infrastructure pilot in the Harborfront. If public money flows, we should have clauses that ensure residents aren't pushed out."

Irene's smile narrows; she folds her hands and leans in. "Community oversight sounds ideal. In practice, it creates delays. Our contractors demand certainty—deadlines, strict oversight, clear chains of command. If we open too many windows, the building doesn't go up." She taps the edge of a folder. "I can include a pilot clause, conditional on performance metrics and fixed milestones, but the funding is contingent on accelerated timelines. We can't do both slow and immediate."

Luca slides a set of renderings closer, fingerprints ghosting across glossy foam core. "We have a contractor lined up," he says, voice smooth as varnish. "Tiered delivery, performance bonds, community liaisons funded by the project. We can arrange temporary housing vouchers for any displaced residents. It's not perfection, but it's action."

You hear neighbor voices in your head—the practical, furious, pleading chorus you've carried since childhood. Sami's clipped, insistent tone; an older neighbor's hands that once pointed out flooded basements; the children who need a school that won't be underwater next winter. The ledger in front of Irene might buy time for some of them. It might also trade away the neighborhood's agency.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Lean forward and press for language") -> Reaction: "You push the folder across the table and point to a line—community oversight spelled out in quarterly audits, housing protections with legal teeth. Your voice carries the tired clarity of someone who knows what paperwork can do." || Choice B ("Keep your tone conciliatory") -> Reaction: "You soften, offering the pilot clause as a pilot of trust: we try living infrastructure in a corner, and if it underperforms, the city scales. Your words are designed to make compromise feasible."]

Elliot clears his throat, not to take the floor but to carve a space for you. "If we can demonstrate a living seawall that reduces surge energy in targeted sections, the long-term cost is lower and the city keeps flexibility," he says. (He sounds quieter than you expect. There is warmth in his phrase 'demonstrate'—it carries both technical confidence and a plea.) "We can train local crews to maintain it. Give us the pilot and the support, and we'll show a path that keeps people in place and reduces upkeep costs."

Irene's gaze slides to Elliot, then back to you. Her face doesn't betray much—only a small, professional nod that suggests appraisal. The room's air thickens: policy talk, family stakes, the math of risk. Dr. Noor's voice arrives not through the room but through memory, a measured counterpoint. You hear her say, again and again in your head: "Scale slowly. Measure systems. Don't let haste outpace the ecology."

"Dr. Noor's data is invaluable," Irene concedes, voice soft for the first time. "But it's also a luxury when councils are hearing about displaced families every morning. We need something that voters can see and feel by the next budget cycle."

You feel the meeting's tempo accelerate. The rain hammers against the windows, drumroll for the choices you're about to fold into the contract. This is the high tide: practical help on one shore, the risk of being carried by another. Your palms go slightly damp.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Slide the pilot clause to a higher priority") -> Reaction: "You ask for the pilot to be prioritized in the procurement schedule—phase one, within ninety days. You speak with clipped confidence, the sort that comes from having pulled length-of-staffed lists and timetables at two a.m." || Choice B ("Demand binding housing protections first") -> Reaction: "You insist the contract must guarantee temporary-to-permanent housing conversion options before any construction starts. Your voice tightens; this is where you won't budge."]

Irene exhales—tiny, almost inaudible, like a valve. "We can accelerate the pilot," she says, "but it will mean shifting contractor deliverables and placing oversight closer to city governance than community boards. We will allow a pilot, but the city needs assurance: targets, penalties, and the ability to reallocate funds if milestones are not met." Her hand rests on a contract page and she taps a paragraph. "And timelines—tight timelines. The window for procurement is sixty days. Unless you can accept that, the funding goes to the alternative program."

Luca smiles at you, an offer wrapped in salesmanship. "You get oversight, we get accountability, everyone shares the risk—and the city gets protection this season. It's a compromise."

The neighbors in the room shift. A murmur rises—some nod, some press lips together. Sami's jaw is visible across the table; he looks like someone who wants to leap to the microphone and make a speech. Elliot watches you, his expression a braided thing: admiration, worry, and a question folded beneath both. You sense something complex between you that's not a single thread; you do not need to define it here.

Your field notebook sits under your hand—its leather familiar. You slide a finger along the edge, feeling the frayed cord of your multi-tool brush the table. Each clause on that page is a lever. Each signature will be a tidal decision for people who have been counting on your voice.

[Visual: Tight on the contract as Irene slides it across; a pen sits poised beside it]
[Sound: The rain hunches to a louder staccato; your heartbeat echoes in the room's brief silence]
[Music: Strings rise to a sharp, hopeful chord — the peak of urgency and possibility]

You could insist on a different timeline. You could hardline housing guarantees until the ink runs cold. You could refuse and rally the neighborhood, taking the slower, bitter path. Or you could sign—bringing resources in now, accepting oversight as a compromise, and locking in a path that might keep people safe this season.

You breathe. The room seems to hold its breath with you.

You open your mouth to answer—and the city waits on the syllable.

[Page-Turn: The lamp's light slices the contract like a promise; your next word will be the hinge between immediate shelter and long-term control.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{ "has_choice": false, "description": "", "options": [], "root_default_next_chapter": 11 }