[Scene: Harrow Hall Foyer | Evening]
[Visual: The old stone steps wet with recent rain; a string of low sodium lamps throwing long, warm puddles across the flagstone]
[Music: Low, hopeful strings underlaid with the steady rhythm of a clock — a heartbeat for the town]
[Sound: Distant harbor bell, muted conversations, the rustle of coat fabric]

You step under the portico and the air folds around you — salt, wet wood, the faint citrus of someone’s hand sanitizer. Harrow Hall smells like every town meeting you ever sat through: lemon polish on oak, paper edges, the subtle musk of nervous bodies gathering to be seen. Your shoulders loosen, not because the fear is gone but because it has shape now. Tonight has a list, a room, a time. That anchoring steadies you.

You can see the council chamber through the tall window: benches already half-filled with familiar profiles — Maya with paint flecks on her cuffs, Oba leaning on his cane by the back wall, Ronan shifting between optimism and sweaty impatience. Ivo is near the doorway, hands in his pockets, the warm line of his jaw softened by the lamplight. He looks at you and, for a second, the world outside that look drops away. His expression is... complex: steady, honest, and holding more than one weight. It doesn’t tell you everything, but it assures you there’s a person behind the argument.

Alys Maren: "We stick to the facts, the visuals, and leave enough time for questions. Leyna, you have the floor for the model updates?"

Dr. Leyna Ortiz: "(taps her tablet) I’ll run the new projections — shorter windows, clearer overlays. No jargon. We want comprehension, not to intimidate." (smiles) "You were right — the animated sequence helps."

You feel the practiced rituals line up like dominos: briefings, slides, faces. Rituals are small forms of courage.

[Visual: Close-up on your braided cord bracelet catching the lamp light]
[Sound: Your own pulse in your ears, a steady metronome of resolve]

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Offer Ivo a quick, private smile") -> Reaction: "You tilt your mouth toward him; he returns it with a half-nod that speaks of shared labor more than promises." || Choice B ("Keep your expression neutral and focused") -> Reaction: "You pull your features inward like a taut net. Ivo’s eyes flick to you, searching; his unreadable look holds something like respect and worry."]

[Scene: Town Council Chamber | Minutes later]
[Visual: A wide shot of the chamber — oak benches, a semicircle of council seats, the mayor's elevated dais; the room hums with low conversation]
[Music: Hopeful piano motif weaving into the strings; a pulse that suggests momentum]
[Sound: A single chair scraping as you step to the lectern, the murmur quieting]

You place your notebook on the lectern because the habit grounds you; you could have gone paperless, but the feeling of pages under your palm steadies the voice that will speak for the seagrass, for the fishermen, for the roofs that still leak. You begin with the map: currents, nesting sites, most at-risk parcels.

Alys Maren: "Good evening. I want to start by thanking everyone who's been showing up — on the water, on the docks, in the lab. These models are not abstractions. They are predictions built on what we observed last season, and they show where we can make immediate reductions in risk and where we need to invest in long-term recovery."

Celine Harrow: "Mayor here. We appreciate the work, Alys." (polite, composed) "And we appreciate the clarity. Please, continue."

Celine’s smile is practiced, her tone a carefully mixed cordiality. You notice the digital cuff at her wrist flash when she checks a notification — municipal schedules, donors, perhaps. She is steady; she is a force that can open doors. Her presence shapes the room like a warm current.

Dr. Leyna Ortiz: "This is the key overlay." (swipes, the projection changes) "Short-term: we can dampen peak surge impact by placing movable berms and improving shelter protocols. Medium-term: living breakwaters and seagrass restoration reduce wave energy and improve habitat resilience within years, not decades. The models also show that combining these approaches reduces risk faster than either alone."

Ivo stands when you point to a cluster of neighborhoods on the screen.

Ivo: "People need walls and dry places now. You and Leyna can promise me however many seasons of recovery, but next month’s storm will not wait for a model to animate. We need visible protection and shelter upgrades so folks sleep without listening to the sea all night."

The room shifts with his words — nods, a few murmured agreements, a handful of raised eyebrows. You hear the weight of hunger in the room: for safety, for control, for something tangible. Ivo’s voice is not the anger of someone opposed to science; it is the insistence of someone who has carried wet mattresses to safety more times than he wants to admit.

Alys Maren: "Ivo, I don't disagree. The models show we can buy months of protection from targeted hard measures, and we should. But those measures without ecological recovery will become expensive and more fragile over time. We can do both —"

Celine: (leaning forward) "Both in theory — yes. In practice, our budgets are finite, and the town needs lenders convinced. I can secure municipal funds for substantial infrastructure if we can present a single, decisively funded plan."

Leyna's jaw tightens slightly; she looks to you, asking without words whether the town should chase the immediate influx of funds that could change the map overnight.

Dr. Leyna Ortiz: "The funding could scale us faster, Alys — but it might also require concessions. We should insist on transparency and safeguards, or those resources could be tied to developments that damage the very habitats we're trying to protect."

Celine: (soft, persuasive) "Transparency is part of the agreement I propose. We draft terms with legal oversight. Saltwick cannot wait for ideal processes while roofs blow off and fisheries fail. I can move quickly because I have leverage."

Your throat tightens — leverage is a currency with a two-sided blade. You feel the room's expectation landing on you, not because you asked for it but because you have become the town's interpretive voice between charts and home.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Use a quick, human story about a family losing a season's harvest") -> Reaction: "You tell them about a family who re-shelled their savings into nets last winter and still slept on the cement floor; faces in the crowd soften, someone in the back swallows audibly." || Choice B ("Keep strictly to the data, avoiding anecdotes") -> Reaction: "You move on to the next slide. The numbers are clean and persuasive; some people lean forward, others look at their phones, parsing probability rather than people."]

Maya, sitting near the aisle, catches your eye and gives you a little thumbs-up. Her paint-splattered hand is a small, humanizing note in the formal room. You breathe in and translate that smallness into your next sentence because numbers need people to have legs.

Alys Maren: "The choice isn't between money and morality. It's about sequencing. A combined approach — immediate shelters and berms, followed by rolling seagrass restoration and living breakwaters — reduces risk now and decreases maintenance costs later. It keeps people safe while giving the ecosystem space to come back."

Celine: "Sequencing requires time and public patience. The public often demands action they can see now. Funding can buy that action, and it can be structured to support restoration too."

An older woman in the front row, hands knotted around a cane, interrupts gently.

Resident: "How long until we can be sure our basements stop flooding? How long until the fishermen can trust a season?"

You feel that question like a slate striking your chest. It is why you returned: because 'how long' is not a number alone — it's a life.

Alys Maren: "We can implement targeted quick-protection within weeks to months that will measurably reduce flooding. Those measures are not stopgaps if we align them with restoration corridors. The models show—" (she gestures toward Leyna) "—that if we start the seagrass pilot in spring and scale with community teams, the break in wave energy will compound over three seasons. The math is not an excuse for delay; it's a map for action."

Ivo: "And I will be on those sandbags and berms. I'll rally volunteers, shore up shelters, get the community moving."

Celine: (tilts her head) "And I will open municipal channels. But I need a clear ask: what do you want from the town today? A formal endorsement? A pilot? A commitment to one plan?"

You look at the faces filling the room — Ronan's eager stance, Oba's closed, assessing eyes, Maya's expectant smile. The town is asking you to speak not just as a scientist but as a shepherd of trust.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Name a specific, immediate ask: a community mobilization and pilot berm.") -> Reaction: "You say it plainly: a volunteer mobilization this weekend and a pilot berm deployment next month. The room brightens; people shift, ready to roll up sleeves." || Choice B ("Propose forming a joint committee to draft a phased plan over the next fortnight.") -> Reaction: "You suggest a committee to align approaches. It promises care and deliberation; some faces look relieved, others impatient."]

Murmurs ripple like a small tide. The mayor clears a throat and leans toward Celine, counting the political calculus. Leyna squeezes your shoulder briefly, a small pressure — solidarity without words. Ivo watches you with an expression that threads hope and impatience.

Celine rises, palms down on the table.

Celine Harrow: "This room can vote on a motion to request municipal funds contingent on agreed-upon transparency and environmental clauses, or we can pass a motion to authorize emergency community defenses funded by local allocations while the models run. Both are valid. We are at a decision point."

The room is a contained storm. You feel both the push to immediate action and the gravity of long-term stewardship. The tide of opinion will be shaped not only by who speaks most loudly but by who frames the stakes most clearly.

You gather the images on the screen into a single, simple slide — the overlay that shows short-term reductions and medium-term gains if combined. You breathe, thinking of the greenhouse's heat, the smell of damp soil, Leyna’s laughter when a seedling finally took root — small triumphs stacking toward something larger.

Your internal monologue folds into the single steady thought you've kept like a compass: small triumphs are additive. They become cumulative until the scale of possibility changes. This room can start that accumulation tonight.

Ivo's hand brushes yours near the laptop as you step back from the lectern. The contact is brief; his fingers are warm. He doesn't say anything, but his presence is an argument: people in the town need hands on the wheel and a plan that shows movement.

You stand on the fulcrum between momentum and conservancy, between immediate shelter and patient restoration, between a mayor's leverage and a boatwright's grit. The council waits for you to articulate the path forward. The air tastes of lemon polish and rain, and every face is a question.

[Visual: Close-up on the projection — three overlapping strategy icons labeled in plain text]
[Music: Swell of strings rising into a hopeful chord]
[Sound: A hush — the town holding its breath]

You realize the choice is less about picking a 'right' answer than choosing a way to lead: which narrative you will carry into the community and how you will marshal trust, money, and labor to bend the future toward safety and renewal.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How do I lead Saltwick now?",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Rally with Ivo — build immediate defenses and shelters.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Take Celine's offer — secure municipal funding for rapid infrastructure.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Double down on the scientific restoration plan with Dr. Leyna.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}