[Scene: Tide Garden | Noon]
[Visual: Sun slices through silvered solar sails; the living seawall arcs like a held breath. Camera bulbs flash along the boardwalk. Children kneel at algae-streaked terraces, scattering soil into tiny planters.]
[Sound: Cheerful chatter, the metallic clank of Calder’s crane at the Glass Pier, camera shutters, a gull cutting a thin, surprised call]
[Music: Bright brass underscored by an uneasy, fast tremolo]

You stand at the edge of the living wall, notebook clipped under your arm, the packet Jun gave you folded against your ribs like a second heartbeat. Around you, the neighborhood's work — soil-stained hands, stitched sails, trays of microgreens — makes a kind of fragile triumph that smells of wet earth and something like possibility.

Maya moves beside you, voice low but precise. "Keep them close. Watch the sensors. Jun—" she jerks her chin toward the press—"—keeps the record rolling." Her fingers are already fumbling for the phone, ledger open to the same margin notes you've circled a dozen times.

Ori sweeps past with a tray of seedlings, grease on his knuckles, a grin that arrives too late and stays too briefly. He leaves a hand on your shoulder in a gesture that tries to stitch ordinary tenderness onto the spectacle of the day. You feel it — the warmth — and then the world tilts.

[Visual: Close-up on the tidal sensor mounted at the seawall's base; a small LED blinks steadily green.]
[Sound: A high, thin electronic ping begins — then spikes into a harsh, urgent tone]
[Music: Tremolo rises; a percussive, panicked rhythm interrupts the brass]

The sensor throws numbers across your vision. The display fleas with red: a spike, jagged and sudden, numbers that weren't on any timeline. You know those numbers in your bones — you keep tide charts in your sleep. These are off-chart. Wrong.

"That's not—" Jun hisses, moving to the readout, fingers trembling over the tablet. "That's not in the model."

The boardwalk vibrates with shifting feet. Voices jump. Calder's PR liaison laughs into a microphone two kiosks over, a practiced note that doesn't fit the tone the sensor sets loose. Someone claps; cameras find the clap.

You glance at the channel lines you've inked into margins over the years. Your pen blurts a question mark and a swear. The spike is the siren that breaks the morning's story into shards.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Run to the sensor console") -> Reaction: "You sprint, breath loud and slicing; the tablet's glass is warm under your palms and the surge still bleeds across the waveform." || Choice B ("Call Jun over and gather the team") -> Reaction: "You shout Jun's name; he snaps his recorder to his chest and runs, his face thin with focus as you round up Maya and Silas."]


Calder's crane swings a polymer brace into place on the seawall with industrial choreography. The brace lands like a punctuation — reassuring to the cameras, unsettling to you. The living modules flex and hold; children cheer as a small tide laps harmlessly at the terraces. Photographs are taken: triumphant, clean, cropped.

But Jun's face when he swivels to you is not cropped. He is a live-wire of disbelief. "They opened the upstream gates," he says. His voice is a knife. "Unannounced. The spike matches the release." He shows you a map overlaid with timestamps — lines that run the length of the river to the city's intake sluices. "Someone pushed a flow to make us look good under pressure." He looks to Calder, then at you. "Someone engineered this."

Maya's phone bell rings like a gunshot. She answers, face folding. She walks away from the cluster, pacing, voice rising until it cuts into the camera-slick air. "We have a notice," she says, urgent and raw. "They're calling for managed relocation advisories to be issued if sensors cross an 'ambiguity threshold'—" Her hands chop the phrase as if trying to carve meaning from fog. "They added language. They can—" She hangs up and looks at you, eyes blown wide. "They can trigger advisories. They can move people."

Ori's hand is at your sleeve, but his amber eyes go somewhere far away, to the memory of a VossCorp conference room or to the quiet gulf between the promise he makes and the compromises he's willing to live through. He pulls a seaglass charm off his necklace and rolls it in his palm like a worry stone. It catches the sun and turns the color of something deeper than your day. He doesn't say anything at first; his silence is a small, unbearable space.

Jun jabs the tablet at you. "Look." He taps a hidden clause he unearthed beneath permit redactions — dense legalese wrapped in corporate comfort. "Managed relocation under 'unresolved safety conditions.' Ambiguous thresholds. It gives them unilateral authority to classify neighborhoods as 'at risk' and mandate relocation." His jaw clenches. "We hammered language for tenure, Ava. You remember. But this—this clause lets them fold safety into their leverage."

You feel the floor tilt. Your optimism — the one you've patched like waterproofing over old wounds — cracks with a sound that is almost physical. It's a small, sharp noise, like someone striking a bell you've been using to call people in the morning. You taste salt and copper and the sudden iron of outrage.

Calder steps forward from the Glass Pier with the slow precision of a man who has rehearsed this posture a thousand times. His suit is sharp, hydrophobic seams beading salt. His smile is the same one that looked like salvation in investor decks; now it reads like a hinge.

"Unfortunate timing," he says, voice measured, reaching for the public register of condolence. "We had logistical reasons—upstream engineers had to relieve pressure. Our model predicted a nominal spike; as you can see, the seawall withstood it. The pilot is working."

You feel heat flare under your ribs. "You released the gates," you say. Your voice is thinner than the fury you feel. "You manufactured a test."

Calder's lips tighten. "We coordinated with municipal authorities. This was a controlled precaution." He lifts a hand, showing his watch, and something bright flashes — a wrist-screen with charts. "We mitigated greater risk."

"Mitigated—by forcing the tide where it hurts," Jun snaps. "By turning our neighbors into test data."

Calder inclines his head in a practiced way. "We act in the city's interest. Sometimes difficult decisions are necessary for broader resilience."

"Those decisions look different when they come from you," Old Mara says from behind you; her voice is small, but when she speaks the air changes. "We've survived storms by making beds, not by handing our doors to strangers in suits."

A ripple of murmurs moves through the crowd. Someone begins tearing open a mailed envelope; a relocation notice, stamped with a bureaucratic seal, drops like a gray leaf. A toddler nearby looks up, confused, water on their knees. A woman you know by the exact bend in her smile opens a second envelope and reads, hands shaking. The room goes thin with the sound of life being rearranged.

Maya's shout slices through your skull. "They were allowed to write that clause in the last negotiation cycle—" Her voice is a machine of accusation and grief. "We thought tenure protections held. We thought—" Her syllables break. "Ava, you—"

You do not want to hear the accusation. You know the ledger of decisions you carried; you also know the places you hesitated. You remember nights of drafting language until your eyes blurred, compromises traded like currency. Survivor's guilt has always been a soft coal beneath your ribs; now it flares to a living flame. Did you trade safety for surrender? Did you sign people into a legal architecture that lets someone else pull them from their homes?

Ori steps up and grips your arm. "We didn't know—" he begins, voice small and ragged. "I didn't know they'd—"

"You worked at VossCorp," you say, and the words are sharp. "You knew how they think. You told me you left because they valued something else."

"I left because I couldn't be part of that," he says. "Because I couldn't—" He stops as if the sentence threatens to fracture him. He looks at Calder with a new, pained recognition. "I thought making things here would keep people here."

Calder watches the exchange with a corporate patience honed into a blade. "We offered infrastructure and permanence," he says. "The world needs that scale. Your living wall is beautiful, Ava. It helps. But scale matters. We are offering to protect far more people than a single block can."

"You offered to protect by making people quit their homes," Old Mara spits. "Your 'protect' is a shovel at our doors."

Silas, who has been standing with his palms scraped from working on a planter box, kicks the boardwalk in a small, shaking gesture. "They told my aunt to pack up. She has nowhere else," he says, voice cracking. "You call that protection?"

A press photographer angles for a frame: the child, the envelope, the suit. Images will be edited. Words will be chosen. The living wall will be a hero in tomorrow's paper, with a footnote about 'community transition' buried on page twelve.

Jun's recorder clicks like a metronome. "There's more," he says, voice raw. He throws a PDF at you — private memos, a trail of messages between VossCorp and municipal engineers discussing 'strategic flows' and 'public perception tests.' The language is clinical and cold. "They were testing how the wall looks under manufactured pressure for PR while keeping an exit ramp open in the permits."

A woman begins folding a cardboard box at the edge of the garden. Another crams a small lamp into a bag. Lanterns bob in a sudden gray rain that begins like the world exhaling. The rain smells of metal and something older — riverbed and rust. The day that had been a launch becomes a packing day.

Your hands go numb around the notebook. The pages, a moment ago a map of hope, are now a ledger of what may feel like betrayal. Your survivor's guilt rockets into fury that tastes like seawater and hoarse rage.

You stride toward Calder before you know the plan—because there is no plan, only reaction. The crowd parts like water. He holds your gaze as if measuring you for some future negotiation.

"What will you do," you demand, "when those notices hit the doors? When families are moved because someone decided your PR mattered more than their tenure?"

Calder's face is a mask that wants to convey sorrow and inevitability at once. "We will coordinate relocations with dignity," he says. "We will provide housing options and compensation where necessary. History sometimes requires hard stewardship."

"Hard stewardship," Maya repeats, as if tasting a sour word. "Is that what you call the displaced markets and boarded windows?"

Calder's jaw is a cliff. "I am committed to minimizing harm," he says. "The pilot demonstrates resilience. It creates a template. Our obligation is to the many."

Your chest hurts in a way that makes your breath short and sharp. The speakers on a press podium nearby keep humming a recorded statement about "collaboration" and "shared futures." The rhetoric slides over the real damage like oil on water.

Ori squeezes your hand. It's a small, human pressure, an attempt to anchor. "We can fight this," he says, voice low. "We can show the memo. Jun can run it wide."

Jun looks at you, eyes full of the tired, righteous hunger that has kept him digging. "We can blow this open," he says. "Public audit, legal counsel, expose the 'managed' language. People will stand with you."

You think of the woman with the two envelopes; you think of Silas's aunt with nowhere else to go; of Old Mara's beads, clicking like a tide-clock. You think of the child who had been laughing with wet knees a heartbeat ago. The fury in your chest is a thing that strips away careful language until only one small, feral truth remains: you will not let the streets you loved be used as collateral.

But fury is not a plan. It is heat. Plans need edges.

Maya folds her hands around the ledger as if it were a weapon. "We do not have time for guilt to become paralysis," she says. "You have people willing to file complaints, to camp at municipal offices. We need counsel, firm statements. Jun—get the memo on every feed. Ori—your network of fabricators and supporters, can you help with emergency shelters if they push notices?"

Ori's jaw tightens. "Yeah," he says slowly. "I can—"

He stops, and for a moment the weight of the day lands on him in a way his jokes and hands have never had to bear. He looks at you, at the living wall, at the envelopes being stuffed into boxes.

"You could leave," he says suddenly, voice brittle with something that might be self-preservation or truth. "You could take what we built as a proof and go seed other places. We could save more hearts if we're not tied down to one fight."

His words are a wedge. You remember every phone call you ever took on cold porches, every map you inked until dawn. You remember why you came back to Saltway — because staying mattered.

"I am not the sort of person who abandons a tide line when people are packing," you say, and the words surprise you with how steady they are. "I stayed."

He exhales, a sound that is almost a sob. "So did I," he admits. "But—" He looks like he is trying to measure what staying will cost.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Confront Calder publicly now") -> Reaction: "You climb the press riser, voice shaking then sharpening, and demand answers. Cameras angle in; the crowd leans closer as your words become a broadcast of accusation." || Choice B ("Call a community assembly and secure legal counsel first") -> Reaction: "You plant your feet on the boardwalk and call for a meeting at the Hall. People nod, hands find each other's; the crowd begins to reorganize into something less like a spectacle and more like a plan."]


The rain hardens. Lanterns sway. People ferry boxes to boats and cars; someone hands a trembling radio to Old Mara, who tucks it under a shawl like a prayer.

You watch Ori tuck the seaglass charm back into his palm and then, after a long beat, clip it to your bracelet without a word. His fingers are quick; the gesture is both apology and offering. You feel the weight of it, heavier than the polished charm should be.

Calder turns to leave, his silhouette a sculpted promise in motion. His aides cluster and smooth their jackets, counting press impressions even as the raindrops make honest patterns on fabric.

Jun bolts through the crowd, recorder a bright red light of intent. "I'm releasing the memos," he calls. "People deserve to know." His voice is high with the kind of hope that crosses into risk.

You fold your notebook slowly, fingers tracing tide charts you've drawn into every margin. The living wall holds water like a slow, patient breath. It has done its job physically today. But the law that sits in the margins of the packet — the clause with teeth — means safety can be wielded as control.

Your survivor's guilt reconfigures into something sharper. Rage pairs with a cold, utilitarian clarity: you will not let this be the last word. Tonight, there will be lists and calls and filings. There will be headlines and lawyers and a long, private accounting with yourself about the trades you made. There will be people who leave, and there will be those who stay. There will be blame; there will be ways to turn public fury into policy change. This is a new ledger.

The rain tastes of iron. Lantern light blurs into watery halos. You close your hand around the notebook until the cover creaks.

You look out over the water — the living wall, the Glass Pier, the cranes that are patient as a storm — and you breathe in as if you can inhale strategy, solidarity, and the next impossible day all at once.

You do not know how the city will remember this: a triumph defanged, a pilot used as leverage, a neighborhood offered shelter at the cost of its consent. You do not know what will be left when the storm that is political and legal and human has passed. But you know what you will do first.

You tuck the packet under your arm, the sealed clauses a heavy thing. You will fight. Not because the law always honors truth, but because people — your people — are unfolding boxes and folding memories into carriers. Because the seaglass on Ori's palm is a small, luminous promise that what is broken can be mended, and because the alternative is to watch the tide carry your neighbors away while you stand with folded hands.

[Visual: The camera pulls back; boardwalks stream with motion; lanterns bob through the rain like a string of small, stubborn stars.]
[Sound: Rain thickens, overlapping with a chorus of determined voices and the far, precise thrum of a crane at work]
[Music: A low, relentless drum builds beneath a minor-key string — not hopeful, not resigned, only resolute]

You close your notebook. The pages whisper with names and deadlines and the margin where you once wrote "hold tenure." The living wall hums. The press hums. The city breathes.

[Visual: Fade to Gray]
[Music: Fade Out]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}