[Scene: Marenport Flooded Promenade | Dusk — Rain-sheened twilight]
[Visual: Low clouds press close to the water. The promenade's stone is a dark mirror, broken strings of lights winking in puddles. In the distance, rectangles of cold light trace the silhouettes of hoisted TideGrid platforms.]
[Music: A slow cello line, undercut with distant metallic hums]
[Sound: Rain tapping, the occasional impatient gull, the steady mechanical throbbing of deployed pumps]

Narration
You came to this promenade believing in stitches — wooden planks, neighbor-to-neighbor pumps, seedbanks shared across kitchen tables. Tonight those stitches still exist; they are damp and frayed, but they are there. Around you, their light is small and human. Above that light, something larger moved into place anyway: machines dropping like foreign constellations, cables and algorithmic mouths that decide which streets stay dry and which are told to hold.

You can feel the salt in the air shifting — not just the ocean's salt but the metallic tang of gears and an administrative ledger given teeth. The TideGrid's lights throw long, ordered shadows over the market stalls. Hospitals just west of the old pier glow with steady warmth; the pumps keep their basements clear. You know on a practical level that some people are alive tonight because of those lights. You also know, with a different kind of certainty, what was traded for that survival.

[Visual: Camera follows you down the promenade; faces slip past — some relieved, some hollow with anger. A child presses her palms against a shop window, breath fogging glass.]
[Sound: A lowspeaker reads protocols — clipped, polite, implacable]

Neighbor (muttering): "Badge first. No badge, no queue."
Aid Worker: "I'm sorry. Protocol—"

Narration
At the aid hub, a scanning node blinks green for someone with influence and flashes red for a woman who has tended three roof-gardens and no official registry. She stands with rain in her hair and hands full of sprouting cuttings; the scanner refuses her. The aid worker’s voice is bowed by sympathy and policy both. The woman’s face thins into something that could be grief or rage; from where you stand it is both.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Offer your credentials and take her place at the queue") -> Reaction: "You step forward, voice unnervingly steady, and tell the worker her place belongs to community hands. They hesitate, protocols flashing on their display, but the woman breathes as you slip your name forward." || Choice B ("Walk away and stay with the group's longer-term plan") -> Reaction: "You move on. Your throat tightens as you hear the scanner click. You imagine the curve of the ledger assigning another prioritization; the image of the woman’s hands will not leave you."]

[Scene: Aid Hub Perimeter | Continuous]
[Visual: Rosters on translucent screens rotate like constellations. A rectangular kiosk prints access slips with neat, indifferent precision.]
[Music: Sparse piano notes, a counterpoint of static]
[Sound: The whir of printers, the murmur of a crowd]

Ibrahim 'Ibe' N'Diaye: "They're not just taking pumps. They're taking our say. They took the map of tides, and then they asked for our labor. Elias—" (he spits the name like a stone) "—helped them draw the map."

Narration
Ibe's hands are earnest and callused, already stained with paint and wood glue. He moves through the crowd with the bluntness of someone who has always fixed things with his hands. Now he fixes people instead: a quick knot of rope here, a raised plank there, whispered instructions for safe passage through new tidal eddies. When he stops in front of you, his jaw is set.

Ibe: "We can march the docks tomorrow. We can cut lines if we must. This ledger—this 'protocol'—chooses by brokerage, not by need. They'll tell you it's efficiency. It's triage in the service of influence."

You (Maia): "And if it keeps the hospital dry? If it keeps people from drowning tonight?"

Ibe: "So it keeps the hospital dry and pumps away fishers' nets. So it keeps life in a district that buys lobby time and starves another. Is that the kind of saving you want, Maia?"

Narration
There's a question lodged between Ibe's words and your reply: whether saving that hospital tonight is the same as saving the soul of the city. He doesn't wait for an answer. He moves on, and you are left listening to the tide and to the small, human sounds that have always been your true measures.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Join Ibe at the docks—help cut a control line") -> Reaction: "You glance at the tide, then at the lamp-lit hospital that hums with life. Your hands answer before you do, and you whisper to Ibe that you'll be at the docks at dawn." || Choice B ("Stay to collect stories and organize the displaced") -> Reaction: "You tell Ibe you'll gather records—who's been turned away, which gardens lost water, which benches gone. It isn't direct sabotage, but it keeps memory alive. Ibe throws you a look of complicated gratitude."]

[Scene: Narrow Alley Behind the Research Wards | Night — rain heavier now]
[Visual: The alley is a channel of dripping brick and neon reflections, steam rising from a grate. Elias's jacket is a darker smudge against the wall; rain threads through his hair and the sleeve of his jacket (salt and polymer), falling into the gutter.]
[Music: Violin scrape, dissonant]
[Sound: Rain loud here, closer; distant pump thud beats like a war-drum]

Narration
Elias finds you by instinct; he finds the places you cannot avoid hiding in. He looks tired in a way that has nothing to do with the hours — his eyes have been made small by having to calculate trade-offs, to render lives into variables. Up close the gold flecks in his irises catch the streetlight and disappear. He is wet, and there are water-spray diamonds on his lashes.

Elias: "Maia." (soft at first) "I didn't want it to come to this."

You
You want the conversation to start with the warm things that once bridged your differences — the way he used to point out wind patterns with an absent thumb, the ridiculous way he named storms after old poets. Instead your throat tightens and the words that come out are sharper than you intend.

You (Maia): "You made it come to this when you handed them the schematics and didn't ask who would hold them. You built something that washes our labor into a machine and erases the ledger of memory we keep."

Elias
He flinches as if your accusation is cold water, but he squares his shoulders. Logic moves in him like a tide under the sand — inevitable and often cruel. He presses the small tablet strapped to his wrist and the light along it pulses.

Elias: "I handed them the schematics because I thought—because I believed—Maia, I believed in a system that could save lives at scale. You saw stitchwork; I saw a city that would drown if we didn't act bigger. My models—my models show lives preserved."

You (Maia): "Models don't hear Toma's stories. They don't know the name of the bench someone slept on. They don't know which island keeps the festival lights on because they kept a seawall of jars and prayers. Your 'lives preserved' come with an ugly clause: who gets preserved."

Elias: "Who else will make the hard calls when there's no time? Who will choose to flip the switch to save a child in a hospital rather than an older street?"

You
You hear the question as an edge honed against your chest. It should be an abstraction, but you can see the child who used to deliver seedlings with crooked hands and the old woman who taught you how to salt fish. The argument is not only about logic — it's about the moral grammar of choosing one life over another, and who gets to be the author of that grammar.

You (Maia): "You speak like a machine now, Elias. You speak in functions and optimizations and you think that forbids moral pain. It doesn't. It creates it where it didn't have to be."

Elias: "I am in pain." (he cuts in, voice trembling) "Every time a model finds a solution that costs fewer lives, I breathe. But I don't have answers that aren't messy. I couldn't watch the footage of the western district last season and do nothing."

You
The alley is narrow; steam fogs between you. Rain threads down your hair and runs into the collar of your jacket. For a wild second you reach for him the way you used to reach when you were building small things together — a shared screw, a laugh, a hand on a plank — but the distance between your convictions is now a gulf paved with the bones of policies.

You (Maia): "You built something to save faces, Elias. It saved some. It took others. And it did it under someone else's rubric. You gave Rin a tool she could wield."

Elias: "Maia — Rin isn't everything. She picked up what we made, but she also used a vacuum of governance to roll faster. If we hadn't made the system, they'd have taken a different lever. We can still shape oversight."

You (Maia): "Shape oversight? She removed our vetoes overnight under "emergency powers." She called it saving lives. Ibe's brigades are planning to cut the lines you built. Old Man Toma says they've given the pumps to ledgers and forgotten the people."

Elias: (bitter laugh) "And you want me to stand aside? Watch our designs be twisted and hope a slower, 'communal' process would have been right? How many would have died while we argued about consent?"

You
You don't have an answer that can land. The alley hums with the TideGrid's distant mechanics as if to say: those machines don't need your moral reconciliation. They only need someone to feed them decisions.

Elias: "I love you, Maia." (then, quieter, desperate) "I thought I could save both the city and the people I love. I thought I could be both a builder and a partner. Maybe I'm wrong."

You (Maia): "Love doesn't exempt you from harm, Elias. It won't fix what has been broken here tonight."

Narration
He reaches but does not touch; his hand falls away as if meeting a heatless glass. You turn and leave, the rain erasing the tracks he might have followed. It's not a great parting; it's an acknowledgment — love intercepted by policy. You feel as if something in your chest has been mechanically excised: not hate, not forgiveness, but a chasm of tired grief and small, gathered memories.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call out to Elias and ask him to help broker oversight with you") -> Reaction: "Your voice catches in the rain. He hesitates, then nods, a small human motion. For a breath you imagine a future where the two of you sit across a table and force transparency into algorithms." || Choice B ("Walk away without looking back") -> Reaction: "You pull your hood up and walk. Each step is measured, each breath a small act of survival. The lights of the TideGrid blur as you pass; for a moment you are only the person who still has to sew community after the machine has passed."]

[Scene: Flooded Promenade — Midnight]
[Visual: The TideGrid platforms glow like iron moons; stabilized districts have warm lamplight and moving people. On the margins, the water runs higher and refuses to be managed by a central schedule.]
[Music: A low, mournful chord; wind picks up]
[Sound: The city's hum is fragmented — pumps in one district, silence and creaking reeds in another]

Narration
Ibe organizes small brigades to reroute water with boards and sandbags, to keep the market afloat where the TideGrid's maps ignored it. Old Man Toma stands on a small rise and curses the invisible ledger, calling it many names that are not kind. Faces you know — neighbors, friends, people who taught you how to mend nets — turn toward you with questions that are not only practical but existential: What do we become when the thing that saved us also decides our worth?

You move through these faces like someone taking inventory of loss. The TideGrid has saved hospitals, surely. People in certain districts sleep with steadier breaths. Yet the stabilization comes with unequal distribution: cleared channels here, grotesque neglect there. The algorithm reroutes resources to influence patterns the machine associates with 'criticality.' Those patterns map unequally across the city's old class lines. Community labor — the gardens, the benches, the oral maps of currents — were incorporated as data, flattened into inputs without representation.

You stand on a small step where the wooden promenade meets an improvised plank. The locket at your throat — warmed by your thumb — feels heavier tonight. It is not that the machine's success is a lie; it is that success is partial and costly in ways that language refuses to simplify.

Old Man Toma: "They gave us a pump and took our stories."

Neighbor (bitter): "They call it triage. They call it optimization. We call it who they value."

Narration
You think of all the small hands that planted seeds and of the quiet work that kept rooftops from becoming memory. You see those hands turned away at access points; you see Ibe's brigades hammering at bulkheads; you see Elias at the edge of action like a man tethered to something he helped finish and no longer fully owns. Love becomes a casualty here — not because it was weak, but because policy, once materialized into gear and law, can override even the most intimate of intentions.

You gather the loose things: reports, names, the stories whispered on the terraces. You start a list on a scrap of paper in your pocket — who was denied, which pumps were reallocated, what gardens lost steady water. It feels insufficient, a tiny attempt to file truth against a machine that prefers tidy numbers.

Narration
At the end of the night you stand on the promenade and watch the TideGrid's lamps slide along the channels like a measured tide. You don't know whether this will be recorded in history as salvation or as a theft. You only know what you have — damp hands, an aching chest, the stubborn knowledge that stitches can still be sewn even when some power chooses otherwise. You will carry the ledger of faces in your mind and let it be your record.

You let the rain soak you through. The city's big machine hums on, efficient in the immediate term, impartial only in its cold calculus. Around its edges the social fabric frays: friendships unspool into accusations; lovers speak in diagrams; the markets hold their breath. You feel grief more than anger tonight — a long, slow unpeeling of an intimate world.

[Visual: The camera pulls back to show the promenade as a thin vein of light in a wider dark city, some parts safe, some parts forgotten.]
[Music: Cello resolves into a low, final note]
[Sound: Rain softens; a distant gull calls once and is answered by nothing]

Narration
You close the scrap of paper, press your thumb to the photograph in the copper locket until it warms, and let the image of the old shore rest against your sternum. The city will hold both kinds of truth now: the technical truth of fewer drowned basements and the human truth of otherings leveled into code. They are both true, and both cruel in their own ways.

You do not know if Elias will come back to help reforge oversight, or if he will be folded into the machine's architects forever. You do not know if Rin's consolidation will become a precedent the city cannot disentangle. You know only that you have a list, hands that still know how to build, and a community that remembers. You will keep them. That will have to be enough.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: The cello line fades into a single, unresolved tone]
[Sound: Rain continues — steady and relentless]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}