[Scene: Subbasement Data Lab | Night]
[Visual: Tight on a bent server rack, water beading on LED panels; the room tilts in the reflection of a swinging emergency lamp]
[Music: Rapid percussion, staccato strings building to a roar]
[Sound: A cavernous groan; metal protesting; a thin, high whine of failing circuitry; distant sirens like far-off tide sirens]

The air is salt and hot electronics, a metallic tang under everything. Sweat beads along your hairline and mixes with the grit that always finds you after long days in the city. Every breath tastes like the Harbor after a storm — brine, smoke, and the electrical snap of things about to break.

You are already moving faster than thought. Your hands know the geometry of these racks the way your feet know the Beacon's steps: where to brace, where to find purchase, the small, important angles that keep a delicate balance from toppling into disaster. Tonight, those lines have gone ragged.

[Visual: Close on your boots, one sliding on a wet cable; the other finding a rusted seam in the concrete]
[Sound: Cable snaking; a server case collapses with a dull, catastrophic thunk]

Elias: "Get out. Please—get out!" (voice a broken flint)
Elias's face is streaked with seawater and dust; his eyes are raw, amber wide in a way that strips away everything else around them. He moves as if to pull you, but his hands are shaking too, half-grip on your shoulder, half-reaching for anything that will keep him steady.

You look at him and the world contracts into the tilt of that one shared look. He isn't asking you to be brave. He's begging you not to be.

Mina: "Med teams, corners. Rafi, take the feed and send it—get it to the network now." (commanding, voice steeled)
Mina's hands are already a blur, snapping kits open, slapping pressure dressings into a sequence she has practiced a thousand times. There is a fierce, practical calm to her that keeps you attached to the ledger of things that still make sense.

Rafi: (breathless, somewhere between fury and prayer) "I'm live. Every angle. People are seeing this."

Sora: (soft, an anchor against the noise) "Remember the long tide, Aiko. Remember what we promised each other about who we save first."

You hear Sora more than you see them — the old cadence of the coastline in the way they speak. Their shawl is clutched to their chest. They are small against the machine's shadow but immense in the steadiness their voice forces into the room.

[Visual: Humming monitors flash tidal models — teal lines, urgent red alerts]
[Sound: A high, insistent beep as the failsafe register blinks amber]

A panel is tilting outward where the conduit joins the main bus. A hairline fracture has become a hinge; the water pushing from the breach is not slow. It pushes with the old patience of tides, relentless and unquestioning. Cables whip like inert snakes freed from a pit — one lashes across your wrist and leaves a sting that feels like a hot brand.

Internal thought: This is why you counted wires like prayers. This is why every test, every sleepless night, every ledger entry mattered. If that panel tilts free, remote handlers can't complete the handshake. The failsafe needs human contact — steady mass to close the circuit and allow a soft stop. All the models you used to teach and to argue with Rowan are suddenly simple, brutal arithmetic.

Elias reaches for your face, not to pull you but to hold you present in the collapse.

Elias: (whisper) "I love you. Don't make me—" (voice thick, unsteady)

Your boots find nothing. One slips. For a second you are a camera trapped in slow-motion: the drop of a tool, the flash of sparking contact, Rafi's recorder trembling in his hand, Mina's mouth open and the shape of sound caught between a scream and a prayer.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Shout for the team to brace the panel") -> Reaction: "Your voice breaks high above the din. Mina and two others lunge, hands finding the lip of metal — for a maddening second their weight steadies the tilt." || Choice B ("Stay rooted and try to clamp the connector yourself") -> Reaction: "You press your palms to cold composite and feel the tremor of the whole system. Your fingers find an access seam; for a terrible heartbeat you imagine the circuit closing under your own body." || Choice C ("Reach for Elias' hand and pull him back") -> Reaction: "You close the distance between you in one motion that feels like recklessness and mercy at once — your palm finds his, fingers locking as the world convulses around you."]

[Sound: A sharp, glassy pop as a coolant line bursts; the room fills with a wet, hissing steam]
[Music: Strings shred into a single sustained tone that claws higher and higher]

Breath comes ragged. You taste tomorrow and memory and everything you wanted to build laid out in lists and diagrams that never accounted for the immediacy of someone's hand. Your notebook — the ledger — folds inside your head: entries of projects and people, of sensor nodes and kitchen soup. The Beacon's lamp, the way Sora insisted the lighthouse was both ruin and promise.

You think of Rowan Hale — not as a caricature but as a man who believed in decisive solutions. You think of the HelioCorp models that once gave you a deadline and a certainty; of the polished compact they offered while the sea rose. You think of how the world keeps demanding choices you weren't built to take lightly.

Elias: (voice a brittle thread) "Aiko. Please. Whatever you do—"

He doesn't finish. His hand is warm in yours, his fingers uncertain. His wrist-brace is a frayed rope of memory from the sea. The room smells of smoke and something like old soup from Mina's tins; the contrast makes your heart lurch with an ache so sharp it's almost animal.

You can feel the ledger split into two columns in your head: the pragmatic measures that would save the most systems, the human measures that save the most faces. Neither column is clean. Both are full of cost accounting that breaks your ribs to read.

Mina: (urgent) "We can't hold it if you step away. If you step away—" (the sentence cuts on a sob)

Rafi is still filming. His voice is raw and professional at once: "People need to see this. If you—if we get this on record—"

Sora's eyes are older than the emergency. They are full of tide-lines and long afternoons on the porch counting storms. They lift a hand in a gesture that is both benediction and accusation. Their mouth forms the smallest of shapes that you cannot parse into yes or no — only "Remember."

Internal thought: Remember what you swore to protect. Remember the ledger of faces who trusted you and the models that asked you to be precise. They intersect here, in this wet, humming room, the geometry of values made physical.

Your fingers graze cold metal that hums with current. The fail-safe's indicator blinks and holds: no handshake. The remote systems are waiting for the human variable to complete the circuit. A mass, a press, a steady hand — something to anchor the machine's intent and make it stop without violence.

Elias's grip tightens for a second and then loosens, because he knows there are things he cannot do for you and things you might not do for him. The whole room leans forward, expectant.

[Visual: Close on your face, salt-streaked, eyes wide; behind you, the Beacon's lamp — a remembered golden arc — flickers in the image of a smashed monitor]
[Sound: The failsafe emits a long, low tone; the building exhales like a beast]

Every rule you've ever argued for — transparency, community accountability, the sacredness of local knowledge — presses against the cold mechanics of the present. This is not a policy memorandum. It is a body's decision. It is the ledger in flesh.

You feel something loosen in your chest that is not fear. It might be acceptance or it might be disintegration. It is at once everything you've prepared for and utterly beyond your plans.

Your hand lifts, almost of its own accord. Time splinters down to the rhythm of heartbeats and spattered sparks. The room narrows to the electric taste on your tongue, Elias's breath on the back of your wrist, Mina's hands blurred like someone trying to hold back a tide.

[Visual: The panel's edge yawns; a shower of droplets catches the emergency lamp and throws a constellation across the concrete]
[Music: All instruments fall away to a single, sustained note; then silence poised on the edge of decision]

You know what waits on the other side of the motion you're about to make. You know the ledger will be written differently depending on that motion. The future is a ledger whose entries are made with pressure and breath and the blunt, unambiguous laws of physics.

You inhale once, slow and intentional. The room seems to hold that breath with you, a communal inhalation that counts the cost in the small, terrible currency of the moment.

You reach.

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}