[Scene: Havenport Boardwalk | Morning]
[Visual: Wide shot of the boardwalk, hand-lettered signs bobbing; Tideguard Pavilion a distant shimmer on the skyline.]
[Sound: Gulls, a low generator hum, the slap of waves against sandbags; muffled chants rising and falling.]

You came here on the momentum of a choice. The mayor's question—soft and absolute—still rings in the hollow between your ribs. You refused the corporate barriers; you chose the town. Now the town has its voice, and it is not quiet.

Your hands smell of ink and salt. Cardboard signs lean against stacked sandbags: sharp black letters, impatient strokes. Ivy's neon vest is a neon heart in the gray morning; she moves like a conduit, passing out flyers, knotting rope where the tide has undermined the planks. Elder Tomas stands to your left, smaller than you remember but steady, his carved walking stick planted like a mast against the wind. Lina is a short distance away, camera balanced, face intent; she angles for the right light, waiting to catch the moment that will shape the town.

You fold the edge of a banner over the back of a crate and test the weight of the megaphone. The brass compass at your throat catches the pale sun, a scuffed star you translate as stubbornness. You press the leather strap into the skin of your collarbone and imagine every voice you have failed to raise; you imagine every shoreline you did not save. Those ghosts sit beside the real ones who are here—real hands, real breath, real mouths forming new promises.

Marin Sato: "We are not for sale." (You let the words settle like stones.)

Ivy: "Good. Keep it short. Give them something to chant." (She grins, then checks the lineup of speakers, eyes bright with the kind of tired hope that tastes like lemons.)

Tomas: (soft) "Remember to say the names. Name the coves." (He taps the map on his chest, where someone has penciled places that used to be safe.)

Lina: (without looking away from her lens) "I'll run this photograph as 'Havenport at Dawn'—give me the close on your hands when you lift the megaphone." (Her voice is a promise and a ledger all at once.)

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Lift the megaphone yourself and lead the chant") -> Reaction: "You let the crackle of the megaphone swallow the chatter. Your voice comes out rougher than you expect, but the crowd picks it up like a lifeline. Ivy's shout joins yours and, for a moment, the boardwalk feels like it is made of sound." || Choice B ("Hand the megaphone to Ivy and let her warm the crowd") -> Reaction: "You slide the megaphone across to Ivy. She laughs, shrill and triumphant, and the crowd answers her like a mirror. You lean back and watch faces you know and faces you're still learning to trust, cataloguing each expression." ]

You choose, and the boardwalk responds. The first chant breaks the sea of gray: "Our coast! Our care! Our future, our share!" It ricochets off wet planks and patched wood, finds the gulls, and comes back richer. Hands clap, boots stamp, a bell rings from a small boat tied to a sagging post. The tide presses at the base of the supports like a patient hand.

Ariana stands a little apart, tablet at her hip and a small waterproof camera hanging at her side. You cannot read everything in her face—there's a quick, almost involuntary smile when the chant swells, but her eyes flick to the Tideguard Pavilion, then to you. There's something else there, layered and not quite transparent: admiration braided with a tactical calculation. Complex.

You step onto a crate to speak. The megaphone sticks to your palm like a living thing; it warms where your skin meets plastic.

Marin Sato: "Havenport remembers who built this place. We remember the names of the coves, the recipes, the nets, the places where kids first tasted the sea. We will not let those memories become footnotes in a contract!" (You feel the syllables land. Someone whooped. A child shouted a name from the back. The sound tightened you and let you breathe at the same time.)

Crowd Member 1: "Tell 'em, Marin!" (a voice you recognize, nasal and delighted)
Crowd Member 2: "No walls without us!" (older, ragged, resolute)

Ivy: (leaning in) "Mention the living seawalls, the cooperatives. Make it concrete—they're moved by plans." (Her fingers are raw from rope, but sharp when it matters.)

Marin Sato: "We have plans. We have knowledge. Living seawalls—kelp nurseries, oyster reefs, engineered terraces with community trusts to keep access public—these are not pipe dreams. They're resilient. They're ours." (You see heads nodding, some hesitant, some all-in. The sound of the sea is a drum under your words.)

Lina steps closer, the camera clicking softly. She angles a question toward you that is also a public ledger.

Lina Park: "Will you commit, Marin, to leading the cooperative trust if the town votes on it?" (She speaks like a judge, gentle but uncompromising.)

Marin Sato: (after a breath) "Yes. I'll work with everyone—scientists, fishers, elders. I'll sign the paperwork if that's what it takes. But we will not trade our coast for a glossy plan that fences us out." (You can feel the pulse at your temple; the word "trade" tastes like iron. This is a public vow now.)

From the shimmering edge of the pavilion, Tideguard security moves like a practiced current—smiles measured, uniforms spotless despite the mud, their faces polite and empty as cleaned glass. A spokesperson in a coat too new for the boardwalk steps forward, papers held like armor.

Tideguard Spokesperson: (glossy) "We respect everyone's right to protest. Our goal is to protect Havenport—" (she tilts her head, eyes sweeping the crowd) "—by providing secure infrastructure and investment."

Cassian's team arrives with that same smooth efficiency. A tall man with a tailored briefcase—pen glinting like a talisman—presents a press packet, his lawyer's shoes barely whispering against the planks. Cassian himself hangs by the edge of the crowd, his expression schooled to neutral interest; his hands rest on hips that have been trained to measure risk.

Cassian Rhee: (calm) "We can protect the harbor in months, not years. We bring funds and engineers. We will consult—" (his voice is a river flattened by the banks of his confidence) "—but this cannot be decided by ad-hoc demonstrations."

Marin Sato: "You keep saying 'we will consult.' At what point does consultation become replacement? At what point does 'protection' mean closing off the beach to the small boats my family has used for generations?"

Cassian Rhee: "At the point when the sea starts to take whole neighborhoods. You ask for time and we risk more people." (He leans forward.) "This is not about erasing culture; it's about minimizing harm."

Ivy: (cutting in, sharp) "Minimizing harm for whom? Your bottom line or our livelihoods? You can't write our names out of the map and call it safety."

Cassian Rhee: (mildly) "I'm not here to be enemies. There are trade-offs. There always are."

Marin Sato: "Then let's trade with eyes open." (You level the megaphone like a compass.) "We will accept no terms that gatekeep the shore. We will negotiate from a position of community authority. We will build alternatives and we will make them transparent. We will not disappear into your fine print."

Cassian's smile thins into calculation. A lawyer steps forward, crisp pages spilling legalese like salt.

Tideguard Lawyer: (clinical) "We will file an injunction if necessary to prevent unsafe interference with planned mitigation works. Please consider that civil disobedience has consequences."

Lina: (camera to her eye) "We will publish everything. If you file an injunction, we'll publish that, too." (Her tone is flat and steady. The camera is a hammer.)

The crowd shifts. Some faces harden; others look uncertain. Someone starts counting heads. You feel the momentum swerve—the exhilaration of solidarity folding under the weight of impending escalation. The Megaphone is a conduit for courage and also a signal flare.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Call out Tideguard publicly for a press confrontation") -> Reaction: "You name names, detail the town losses, and demand that Tideguard retract any plans that privatize access. The cameras pivot. Cassian's jaw tightens; his dignified cool gives way to visible irritation. Tideguard's spokesperson opens her mouth and then folds her smile. The crowd roars." || Choice B ("Stick to policy and data: frame the alternative quietly but insistently") -> Reaction: "You lay out the living seawall plan—cost estimates, timelines, community governance. Your voice becomes a metronome of facts. The lawyers pause, scanning the numbers. The crowd listens, quieter but focused, and Lina nods as she tilts for the close-up on your hand over the frayed map.") ]

You make the call in the middle of the roar. Both choices are weapons and promises; both feel like starting fires and planting seeds at once. Whatever you choose, the boardwalk takes it and reshapes itself around the idea.

As the day blurs forward, Tideguard's press release hits the web—polite, measured, headline-perfect. "Tideguard Commends Community Spirit; Development to Begin," it says, with a smiling rendering of seawalls that look impossibly clean. The lawyers send a letter by noon, copied to the mayor. Lina sends you the link with a dry comment: "They drew the wall in marble."

Ariana approaches while you speak with Tomas about a list of names to read at the vigil tonight. She stands at the edge of the crowd, just close enough for you to smell the faint lemon of her scarf and the briny residue of the day on her coat. Her expression is unreadable again—there's warmth in the corner of her mouth and a flint of worry in her eyes.

Ariana Voss: (quiet) "Your speech—powerful. You gave them something they can hold." (She pauses.) "If you need the pilot scaled up—if I push funding in my network—would you take it? Publicly?"

You sense the offer has edges. Funding from outside could shore you up; it could also open the door to new expectations. You see Cassian's team watching like a pair of calloused eyes.

Marin Sato: "I will not take money that strings us to decisions we can't reverse. We need resources, yes—but not at the cost of our voice." (Your jaw is tight. You feel the crowd listening as if your words are a measure of the town's spine.)

Ariana Voss: (complex) "I understand. I don't want strings, either. I want partnership. But I also fear we'll be outpaced." (She looks away for a beat, unreadable.) "Whatever happens, I want to stand with you."

You hear it and you don't. The gift is large and tangled. It sits between you like a plank laid over rough water.

Night falls and the boardwalk becomes a constellation of headlamps and sweating lanterns. The protest disperses only reluctantly; people drift toward the Old Boathouse to gather tools and prepare defenses. The boathouse is smaller than the image of it in your head—sagging, salt-streaked cedar, one single lamp throwing a honeyed circle. Inside, the air is thick with tar and memory.

You push the lamp higher and see the maps taped to the wall, the jars of nails, the hand-lettered lists of volunteers. You find the jar you always keep next to the hammer—a chipped glass jar of nails where you have, by habit and superstition, tucked small things: a ribbon, a shard of shell, once a fishing lure. Tonight, you slip the compass into it. Your fingers are sticky with tar; the compass collects it like a thin skin. You press it down between nails and close the lid. It is both a hiding place and a votive.

Ivy: (low, urgent) "Funding could dry up. Arrests could come. They can starve us out with bureaucracy. We need contingency." (Her eyes flick toward the door where shadows gather. She is fierce and immediate and terrified in the same breath.)

Tomas: (steady) "When the storm of '53 hit, we moved whole families inland on wagons. We did not have money; we had each other. There are things law cannot take from us if we remember them right." (His voice is a soft anchor.)

Lina: (tapping a tablet) "I've already prepped an op-ed and an investigative piece. If Tideguard sues, I have the paperwork to reveal prior contracts and redactions." (She exhales.) "It won't be neutral reporting. It will be a spotlight."

Marin Sato: "We keep the boathouse open as long as it's safe. We document everything. We run the living seawall pilot parallel to public pressure. We ask for arbitration if it comes to that." (You list strategies aloud like beads of a rosary, willing order into the chaos.)

Ivy: (gently) "Are you sure you want to be the one to carry this?" (She studies you, the question both tender and practical.)

You feel the old reflex to say yes—because you always have, because someone must, because stepping down feels like abandonment. But the compass in the jar feels like a small accusation.

Marin Sato: "I don't get to be sure. I get to be stubborn. I get to ask for help." (The last words come out thinner than you'd hoped.)

Ivy: (a small, fierce smile) "Good. Then say it. Ask it loud enough they can't pretend they didn't hear."

Outside, a police cruiser idles at the corner as if trying to decide the sound of its authority. Tideguard's lawyers have filed preliminary notices. The press is waiting. The night breathes damp and close against the building. You board the last slat over the boathouse window. The wood protests with a long, complaining groan. The lamp throws a last honeyed oval over the maps. You press the lid of the nail jar down once more, feeling the compass's curve against your fingertips.

Your exhilaration has weight now—heavy with consequence. The night's quiet is taut with something you can't unpack: the knowledge that louder resistance invites heavier pressure. You saved the sound of the chant. You steeled the town's voice. You did it because it felt right, because it honored names and places and stubborn love. But your hands are sticky with tar, and the future is a government letter away from being rewritten.

Tomas sits on an overturned crate, watching you with the patience of someone who has seen tides erase and return whole lives.

Tomas: (soft) "When you were small, you would build walls with driftwood to keep the toy boats in the tub." (He smiles.) "You'd sit there for hours, rearranging, testing their strength with a single finger. You always thought you could fix the sea."

Marin Sato: (half-smile, tired) "Some of us never grew out of boats." (You lift your hand, find the imprint on your palm where the compass used to be, and imagine its weight in the jar.)

Ariana stands at the threshold, a shadow and a possibility. She touches the doorframe as if to steady herself.

Ariana Voss: (quiet, unreadable) "If it gets ugly—if they come for arrests—I'll help with legal channels, with documentation, with scaling the pilot if we need to show proof in action." (Her voice is resolute and complicated.) "But I won't let them paper over public ownership."

You look at her, at the town, at the compass jar like a small, secret altar. The plan you've chosen is public now; the consequences will be, too. There are victories you can see, and there are losses that will not be visible until they have already happened.

You close the boathouse door and nail another board across the window. The final blow of the hammer echoes in the small room. Outside, the sea murmurs the same indifferent company it has always offered.

You tuck the raw truth in your chest—pride threaded with dread—and wait for the next day to bring its tides.

[Visual: Close-up on the jar of nails; the compass glints faintly under tar. The lamp's circle shrinks as the night grows colder.]
[Music: Low cello; a minor chord that doesn't resolve.]

You are certain of one thing and uncertain of more: you have declared a public course. There will be reactions you cannot control.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 5
}