[Scene: Town Hall | Late Afternoon — Storm Approaching]
[Visual: Wide shot of the town hall converted into a panel room. Salt-bleached wooden chairs line up against a floor now echoed in polished Tideguard tile visible through the open doorway. Rain-slick light from the windows makes the room feel smaller, like a net drawn tight.]
[Music: Low, insistent strings; distant rumble of a timpani beneath a single piano note]
[Sound: Muffled conversation, a soft patter of rain beginning to stitch the glass, a foghorn faint beyond the harbor]

You step into the room and the air tastes of ion and sea. There is the faint, metallic tang of charged rain, and under that the warm, stubborn smell of wet wood — old boards that have held a thousand arguments. The chairs look like they were dragged from the boathouse; their grain whispers of hands and nets. The panel table up front gleams too clean, Tideguard's polished aesthetic refusing to be made smaller by the town's mess.

Ivy slides into the bench beside you before you can. Her fingers press against yours, quick and grounding. Elder Tomas sits with his shoulders rounded like the prow of a boat, the carved walking stick against his knee. Lina Park's recorder is a small red pulse on the table. The Mayor fidgets with a folder that looks laminated against the humidity; people shift, cough, whisper names. Your brass compass rests warm against your sternum, an ache in muscle memory more than instrument.

[Visual: Close-up of Cassian at the podium. Slate-gray blazer immaculate; the Tideguard lapel pin catches light.]
[Sound: Murmur dims to a hush as Cassian clears his throat]

Cassian Rhee: "Thank you, Mayor. I'm not here to tell you Havenport is failing. I'm here to offer certainty. Our engineered barriers will hold the new mean tides. They'll protect the harbor, the shops, the main road. We can deploy within months with private financing, minimal disruption, and measurable performance guarantees." (He speaks with smooth, flat assurance. His eyes are careful.)

You hear the room breathe around that word — 'private' — and the way it rings against community memory: buyouts, gated access, decisions made over a table you weren't invited to.

Mayor: "Cassian, can you answer— some people ask about cultural access. What's the plan for the boathouse strip and the fishers' landing?"

Cassian Rhee: "Access will be maintained. There will be regulated zones, timed entries if necessary. We can write legal protections — enforceable easements. The alternative is open risk: more flooding, more loss. We cannot trade days for hope."

A woman in the back mutters; someone coughs. The gleam on Cassian's shoes is a small, impatient thunder in the room.

Ariana stands next. Her raincoat is practical, the blue streak in her hair damped by the weather but her voice is bright in a way that both breaks and invites. The waterproof camera at her hip bobs like a heartbeat when she leans forward.

Ariana Voss: "We can reduce risk without erasing place. Living seawalls, kelp nurseries, terraced marshes — these are solutions that build with the ecology, not over it. They buy us time and rebuild habitat. They give work back to the community, not take it away." (She spreads her hands, earnest. A stray hair slips behind her ear; the camera clicks once in the hush.)

You feel a pull — the scientist's diagrams you lugged home, long afternoons with Ariana talking tide curves and root matrices. Her optimism is a bright, fragile thing that makes your jaw ache to protect it.

Cassian: (leaning into the podium) "Those are beautiful concepts, and they work at scale if you have decades and predictable funding. They do not address immediate catastrophic risk. When insurance leaves, it isn't 'maybe' — it's gone."

Ariana: "And when you put a 12-foot concrete wall up, who do you think keeps the boat ramps open? Who keeps our kids learning to net? Our knowledge is part of what keeps the place alive. There are ways to scale faster — pilot rapid-deploy living breaks, modular hybrid structures. We can phase investment in a way that hedges against uncertainty."

The Mayor looks between them, the ledger of votes and consequences balanced on his face like a pair of glasses he keeps forgetting to put on.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Squeeze Ivy's hand tighter") -> Reaction: "You squeeze until her knuckles whiten. Ivy looks at you, surprised, then turns her mouth up into an encouraging half-smile. The pressure sends a pulse of steadiness through you." || Choice B ("Tap your notebook and make a small note") -> Reaction: "You write 'hybrid — ask about timelines' in the margin, the letters cramped. The motion steadies your breathing and gives your thoughts a shape to return to."]

Lina leans forward, voice sharper than the recorder's red light.

Lina Park: "Cassian, Tideguard's contract drafts were leaked last month showing clauses for 'revenue sharing' classified as proprietary. How will the town ensure local governance, not corporate control?"

Cassian: (smiles thinly) "Any contract can be written with clarity. My firm is happy to work with counsel, with legal oversight. We're offering a partnership, Ms. Park. The town doesn't have to surrender anything it doesn't want."

Elder Tomas: (clearing his throat) "Partnerships that talk about 'timed entries' feel a lot like gates."

A ripple of low laughter, painful and brittle. The Mayor raises a hand.

Mayor: "Ariana, if the pilot fails — if it doesn't scale in time — what then? How many seasons would we need before this works for a severe storm?"

Ariana: (a beat) "We can't promise 'never' to a storm like your grandfather's storm, Mayor. But we can promise this: staged deployments, immediate community labor support, and transparent metrics. We'll measure erosion rates monthly. If a pilot underperforms we have contingency protocols to reinforce quickly. It's not perfect, but it's participatory and reversible."

You taste salt on your lips; the room's light is a storm-filtered gold that makes everyone's eyes shine like wet coins. You think of the boathouse — your family's old planks and the maps on the wall — and of the generator at the nursery humming like a second heart. You imagine a concrete line where those maps hang, a toothless harbor that no longer belongs to the people who read it.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Stand and ask a technical question about 'reversibility'") -> Reaction: "You stand, voice steady despite the knot in your throat, asking for specifics on reinforcement timelines. It forces the panel into the weeds; Cassian's jaw tightens, Ariana's eyes go bright with possibility. Everyone leans in." || Choice B ("Stay seated and let your voice be the slow press") -> Reaction: "You stay seated, letting the silence grow heavy until the Mayor looks at you. The room's attention settles like dust on a ledge. Your heart turns your silence into a tool; patience becomes pressure.")]

Cassian glances at you with that unreadable calculation you have learned to read as both appraisal and challenge. His response is carefully neutral.

Cassian Rhee: "Reversibility is expensive and often not truly reversible. Foundations settle, communities adapt to new boundaries. I am not arguing against coastal ecology — I'm arguing for a funded, enforceable plan that keeps people dry and businesses alive."

Ariana: "And I'm arguing that 'keeping people dry' should keep them whole. We can't call it protection if it protects buildings and erases the web that made them meaningful."

The room tightens. Someone in the back — a fisher whose hands smell of tar and diesel — stands up, voice splitting.

Fisher: "How many of us get to stay if the price of being 'resilient' is losing where we work? If you privatize the shoreline, what happens when our traps are blocked?"

Cassian: (measured) "Community access is part of the design. We'll bring folks into the hiring pipeline for construction and maintenance. This is about replacing risk with opportunity."

You hear the ambition behind his words: a network of contracts and jobs that flows from Tideguard's ledger. It's not empty — you've seen towns transformed this way — but you also know ledgers can become fences.

Ivy squeezes your hand again. Her nails are grit-scratched; her face has the small, stubborn set of someone who has spent mornings baling out boats. You could feel every possible future folding against your ribs: banners and barricades, shaken hands and signed pages, a wet boathouse being leveled with polite apologies.

Mayor: (turning to you; his voice softer now, like he is passing a lantern) "Marin. You've been in the nursery, the harbor, the meetings. What should Havenport do?"

The hush is a weight that presses the air out of your lungs. The compass at your throat warms like a small animal. Every eye is a tide pulling at you. You recall Ivy's steady grip, Tomas' carved wood, Lina's tape light, Ariana's camera — the town and the outsiders and the men in suits who have polished answers for messy feelings.

You can feel the storm's first breath against the window, the sky outside knitting a darker seam. This is more than policy. It's who gets to hold the map and who gets erased from it. You make a sound in your throat, a small, wind-torn inhale, but you don't speak yet. The room waits.

[Music: Strings swell into a low, mournful chord; the rain increases into a slow, insistent percussion]
[Visual: Close-up of your hand unconsciously resting over the brass compass]

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Decide Havenport's stance publicly now.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "We refuse the corporate barriers; we lead community adaptation.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "I will negotiate with Tideguard privately to secure protections.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "We prioritize Ariana’s living-seawall pilot and delay final approval.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}