[Scene: Tidehaven Town Hall | Evening]
[Visual: The brick facade under amber lamps; a small crowd gathers outside, muffled shapes against fogged glass]
[Sound: Distant gulls, a low murmur of voices, the soft clack of protest stakes being set into the earth]
[Music: Warm, rising strings underscoring quiet determination]

You arrive just after the last light of day thins into the council chamber's amber. The tablet from the lab is tucked under your arm like a warm stone; you can feel the teal GIS overlays in its glow as though they pulse beneath your palm. The bell from the old tower has already tolled once; its echo is still in the bones of the building.

Through the tall windows you see Jonah and a cluster of townspeople on the boardwalk—stakes in the ground, ghost-printed photos of docks and nets drifted over with a translucent sea. Kai rallies voices in a cadence that sounds like a chant and like a pulse. Bento stands a little apart, hands folded into the sleeves of his coat, watching with a face that has learned to hold both grief and counsel.

You draw a breath that tastes of paper, salt, and the damp wool of the night. The town is awake. That alone feels like movement.

[Visual: Cut to a close-up of your hand smoothing the tablet screen; GIS layers shimmer with bathymetry and modeled surge lines]
[Narration]
You remember Asha's last words in the lab—"Use it to bind the engineers and the town together." They sit in your chest like a factual weight and a promise. Tonight, your voice must turn those teal lines into something people can live inside. You steady yourself with the compass at your throat; it is quiet, familiar, a talisman you carry for reasons that reach farther back than policy.

[Sound: A muffled cheer from outside; a wooden stake taps a boardwalk rail]
[Visual: Asha Verma entering the chamber, coat buttoned, tablet under one arm; Jonah's silhouette visible outside the window]
[Music: A light, ascending piano figure—hope threaded through tension]

Mira Kestrel: "Evelyn—I'll be ready when you call me."

Evelyn Sato: (a small, weary smile) "We all know the stakes. Thank you for staying."

Evelyn moves like someone orchestrating a fragile instrument. The council chamber is warm with bodies and maps; the air smells of spent coffee and old varnish. Papers rustle. Someone coughs. The projector flickers to life, throwing teal and ochre into the low smoke of lamplight.

[Visual: Dr. Lian Zhou at the projector, fingers poised; charts bloom on the screen in tidy layers]
Dr. Lian Zhou: "I'll walk through the scenarios. We'll keep them clear and tied to outcomes."

Dr. Lian's voice is steady, her monitor reflecting on the glass of the chamber windows like a second horizon. She steps through the models with the patient precision of someone who has learned to love uncertainty enough to map it.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "Scenario A—the gate in place: reduced overtopping in 90th-percentile events, effectively buying us decades under current trends. Scenario B—the distributed living shoreline—slower to mature, but it supports fisheries and reduces erosion through biological accretion. Scenario C—phased combination—reduces peak risk while allowing adaptive adjustments, but it requires very careful monitoring to avoid unintended salinity shifts in back bays."

You feel each scenario as both a spreadsheet and a small grief: each one offers safety on different metrics and costs on others. Lian's final slide lingers: a map with carved colors, the lagoon’s edges blurred.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Step onto the boardwalk to see Jonah and the protesters") -> Reaction: "You step outside, the cold biting your cheeks. Jonah lifts his hand in a crooked wave; the banners smell like damp paper. You exchange a quick, unreadable look—one full of history and the unquiet present—then tuck the warmth of resolve back into your chest and return inside." || Choice B ("Go straight into the chamber to prepare your notes") -> Reaction: "You slip through the doors, palms sticky with the tablet's glow, and find a quiet corner to breathe. The chamber's heat presses around you; you practice the first line of your testimony until it sounds like something you trust." ]

[Scene: Tidehaven Town Hall — Council Chamber | Evening]
[Music: Strings swell gently; a hopeful undertone threads the room]

Evelyn Sato: "Order. We'll begin the public comment period in a moment, but first—presentations. Dr. Zhou?"

Dr. Lian Zhou: "Thank you. (gestures to the screen) These models are probabilistic, not prophetic. They show where risk concentrates and how different interventions shift outcomes. They don't—can't—account for the intangible value of place. That's where you, Mira, and the people of Tidehaven come in."

Your chin lifts. The chamber tilts slightly toward you. Jonah's amber eyes find yours across the room; he doesn't approach. He doesn't need to. The search in his face is a language: permission, or at least alignment.

Asha Verma steps forward with the dry confidence of someone used to being the instrument of decisions.

Asha Verma: "Neighbors—these are not easy choices. The sea-gate, combined with berm reinforcement, gives us a scalable defense. It buys time for regional planning. We need enforceable retreat in critical zones—places where hydraulic forces will amplify. I believe this honesty now saves lives later."

Jonah Reyes: (voice tight, then steady) "And what about the people who live in those zones? Who decides who leaves? Who takes our docks and gives us a promise back?"

Asha Verma: "We set criteria based on exposure and critical infrastructure. Compensation programs and relocation assistance would be part of the package. It's not ideal—but it's realistic."

Jonah Reyes: "Realistic feels like polite for 'not our life.'"

The room hums with the friction of care versus calculus. You can taste the salt of old arguments—tradition brushed with fear. You think of Jonah's hands—callused, honest—mirroring the harbor's worn ropes. You think of Bento's evenings teaching younger fishers the names of tides; you think of Kai's bright-blue hair and the way the youth push change like seedlings through concrete.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Frame your testimony with the models first—start technical") -> Reaction: "You begin by summarizing the GIS overlays, pointing to projected waterlines and failure probabilities. Your fingers trace teal arcs while the room follows the logic. Heads nod, some skeptical, some relieved; the technical clarity calms some nerves." || Choice B ("Open with a personal story about Tidehaven's docks—to center hearts") -> Reaction: "You start with the memory of your father's boat and the nights you learned the rhythms of the harbor. The room hushes; the models blink at the edge of your story, but now faces are tethered to flesh, not only to lines on a screen." ]

You chose—no, you didn't choose yet; the thought of either approach circles in your chest like a tide. You know the models will anchor the discussion, but your story is the rope that can bring people across the abstract. You let both live in the same breath.

Mira Kestrel: "Dr. Zhou's projections show us a menu of futures. The gate buys time—real time. But time doesn't heal the places you love if the places themselves are erased by policy that doesn't listen. We can design implementation that preserves fisheries corridors and funds marsh pilots alongside infrastructure."

Asha Verma: (a brief lift of surprise) "That requires enforceable standards and funding earmarked for pilot restoration."

Mira Kestrel: "Yes. And strict monitoring to ensure the gate's operation doesn't create back-bay salinity shocks. We build the gate where threat is immediate, and at the same time we commit to community-led marsh pilots that receive ring-fenced resources and scientific oversight."

Dr. Lian Zhou: "If we bind the engineering contracts to adaptive monitoring clauses, we can evaluate ecological responses and alter operations. The models can be recalibrated with real-time data."

Asha's jaw tightens in a way that almost translates into approval.

Asha Verma: "I'd need legal language to ensure operators can't override adaptive protocols for political expedience."

Evelyn Sato: (hands folded on the bench) "Those clauses can be written. The funding stream could come from regional resilience grants if we meet certain conditions."

Jonah Reyes: "And who writes those conditions? Who locks them in so the next council can't roll them back?"

Mira Kestrel: "We include community oversight—representatives from fishermen, the Greenhouse Collective, and scientific review. It's not tokenism. They have veto power over operational adjustments that endanger livelihoods."

Jonah's amber eyes search yours again. There is a look there—complex, unreadable. It could be relief. It could be skepticism. It could be something that is both.

[Sound: A chorus of someone applauding softly; a clack of a wooden gavel someone's hand on a bench]
[Music: A gentle uplift, like a new tide arriving]

Kai Tan stands to speak next, voice amplified by earnestness.

Kai Tan: "If we're talking pilots, put the seedlings where people can plant them. Give youth stipends to learn restoration trades. Make the pilots visible—so the town sees their value grow."

Bento Morais: (when he speaks, the room leans) "Our history is not a museum. It's a living ledger of how we have survived storms before. Decisions without memory are decisions without root."

Evelyn Sato: "We'll open the floor to public comment now. Speak your truth. Keep to two minutes."

[Scene: Boardwalk Outside Town Hall | Simultaneous]
[Visual: Jonah standing at the rail, a Polaroid camera hanging from his neck; banners ripple like prayers]
[Sound: A soft rumble of low voices, the slap of damp rope against wood]

You step outside during the break. Jonah meets you halfway along the boardwalk. His hands are rough from work; his face is softer in the dim than the protest banners.

Jonah Reyes: (quiet, a low smile that doesn't reach all the way) "You gave them something to hold onto."

You study his mouth—how it tightens when he thinks. There is a hundred little things between you; none of them are simple.

Mira Kestrel: "We can tie monitoring to contracts. We can protect fishing corridors."

Jonah Reyes: (bites his lip) "It sounds like compromise. It sounds like work. Will the town do it, Mira? Will they actually build the marshes and fund the people to tend them, or will it be a line in a report?"

You know what work means here—seasonal labor, patience, community laboring against tide. You also know the gate would offer immediate cover in a storm that could come sooner than models expect.

Jonah Reyes: (softly) "Whatever you decide in there—know I'm with the people who will plant the first reeds. If that matters to you."

The look on his face is complex—support braided with a challenge. You tuck that challenge into your reply.

Mira Kestrel: "Then plant with me. Make the pilots real so they can't be dismissed."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Squeeze Jonah's hand—solidarity") -> Reaction: "Your fingers find his and squeeze; the contact is a small contract: shared labor, a promise that isn't spoken aloud. Jonah's shoulders relax for a heartbeat." || Choice B ("Offer a wry, private smile and return inside") -> Reaction: "You give him a brief, wry smile—the kind that holds both apology and resolve—and step back through the door. The world inside waits; you leave the warmth of his presence as fuel." ]

[Scene: Tidehaven Town Hall — Council Chamber | Later Evening]
[Sound: Papers shuffle, a recorder hums; the public comment period closes]
[Music: A low, hopeful chord held under conversation]

Evelyn Sato: "Ms. Kestrel—your recommendation, please."

Every eye turns like a compass toward you. The compass at your throat feels heavier now because weight has become word.

You stand, the room shrinking and expanding in the way it does when history leans on a single hinge. You could read from models, you could read from memory, you could read a middle path that stitches the two.

Mira Kestrel: "My recommendation is threefold."

You sense, rather than hear, the slight intake of breath across the chamber.

Mira Kestrel: "One: advance targeted infrastructure where risk is immediate—where models show catastrophic exposure—paired with enforceable operational protocols. Two: fund and guarantee parallel community-led marsh pilots, with binding oversight committees that include fishers and youth. Three: phase implementation with strict monitoring and public reporting so we can adapt operations and preserve sensitive back-bay ecologies."

Dr. Lian Zhou: "Those are implementable steps. We can write the monitoring framework and create actionable thresholds tied to gate operation."

Asha Verma: (a slow nod; for a moment, the steel-blue in her eyes softens) "If the legal language holds, and the funding is guaranteed for pilots, I can support this recommendation."

Jonah Reyes: (a cautious exhale) "If the pilots are real and the oversight means people at the table—not just policy briefs—then I'll stand with those who make sure the work happens."

Evelyn Sato: "I'll draft the motion to reflect those three components. The council will vote."

The chamber fills with a cautious warmth. People whisper—some hopeful, some already composing caveats. The hope is not triumphant; it's a practical, steady rise, like a tide that comes in with tools in hand.

You think of the town—Bento's stories, Kai’s seedlings, Jonah’s Polaroids—and you feel the hum of collective labor beginning to stitch a torn place back together. This is not a clean victory, but it is movement. The vote will codify that movement into law, into coffers, into crews and contracts. That is the work.

[Music: Strings swell into a brighter motif; a sense of potential gathers]

You look at the projector, at the teal overlay where marsh pilots are sketched in alongside the gate. You feel, for the first time since you returned, that the two kinds of protection—hard infrastructure and living shorelines—might breathe together.

[Visual: Close-up on the council chamber as a single beam of light catches motes of dust over the council table]
[Narration]
This is the hinge: the council will now decide whether to bind the town to rapid infrastructure, to champion community pilots with monitoring, or to delay for more study. Every option is a promise and a risk. Each carries the shape of life here: what we save, what we let go, and how we ask people to bear loss.

Your voice steadies. The room waits. Outside, the boardwalk's stakes stand like small sentinels against the sea. Inside, the council's faces are a map of trust and caution.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Determine what to recommend at the council and how to manage fallout.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Push full-on for the sea-gate and enforce retreat in critical zones.",
      "target_chapter_id": 9,
      "target_chapter_index": 9,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Insist on parallel community pilots and tie implementation to monitoring.",
      "target_chapter_id": 9,
      "target_chapter_index": 9,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Pause to broker a phased approach and ask for more independent studies (delay implementation).",
      "target_chapter_id": 14,
      "target_chapter_index": 14,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}