[Scene: Saltmarsh Research Lab | Morning]

[Visual: Wide shot of the converted boathouse, glass panes streaked with salt. Solar shades cast a soft grid of shadow on cluttered benches.]
[Music: Warm, steady strings underscored by a quiet, optimistic piano motif]
[Sound: Low hum of equipment; distant gull calls; the faint rattle of a delivery truck on the boardwalk]

You stand at the lab table with the slate-gray tablet in your hands, the GIS overlays scrolling under your thumb like geography being taught to breathe. The screen smells of warmed plastic and salt—that odd, intimate smell of fieldwork mixed with municipal urgency. Asha's presence is a clean line in the room: efficient, sure, the kind of person who arranges chaos into hard, serviceable shapes.

Asha: "We're moving on your say-so now, Mira." (She folds her hands, eyes steady.) "You lead the pilot on the ground. The department will clear permits within the week. Contractors are ready. Regional funds reroute today."

You let the sentence land, and it feels like being handed both a map and a suture. Authority sits heavy and bright in your palms; the tablet hums with decisions that will touch doorsteps and gardens.

Mira Kestrel: "I—" (You clear your throat; the word you wanted is heavier than it used to be.) "Okay. I'll coordinate with the crews. We'll phase the work to minimize displacement."

Asha studies you for a thin beat, then, almost imperceptibly, nods. There is approval there—clinical, but not unkind.

Asha: "Good. Keep me posted. And Mira?" (She steps closer enough that the air between you smells of paper and metal.) "You have discretion on-site. Use it."

Her words are permission and structure at once. You feel the compass at your throat, cold brass against your skin, tapping faintly—an old rhythm that says remember where you came from.

[Visual: Cut to close-up of tablet overlays—teal contours of seabed, ochre lines marking berm profiles, a clean schematic labeled 'Sea-Gate Section A'.]
[Sound: Soft digital clicks as you scroll; the hum of a 3D model rotating]

Dr. Lian Zhou stands by the monitors, sleeves rolled, sediment samples lined like small promises on a bench. Her face is easy to read: scientist, not judge, but there is a small, relieved smile that finds its way into the lines around her eyes.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "The latest hydrodynamic runs align with the sea-gate model. If we accelerate construction at the highpoint and shore up the berm sections we can reduce peak inundation by nearly half during those modeled storm events."

Mira Kestrel: "Half is—" (You let the scale of that target settle.) "That's meaningful. It buys people time."

Dr. Lian Zhou: "It buys lives, Mira. And the habitat models show the reinforced berms will give us a stable window to begin marsh translocation later."

Asha: (quickly) "We don't want to stall. The region's budget window closes if we delay. I need a coordinator who can balance the council's politics and the engineers' timelines. You're the bridge."

You feel the words in your chest like tidewater pressing against a low wall: bridge. Liaison. Someone who carries both the lab's precise language and the town's quieter cadences. The novelty of the role makes your shoulders straighten. For once, you are not only translating data; you are empowered to act.

[Sound: Phones ping. A call connects; Evelyn's voice crackles in from the Town Hall—warm and practiced.]

Evelyn Sato: "Mira, official support is on the table. I'll shepherd the council paperwork. Keep me abreast of projected timelines. If you need me, I'll stall any procedural obstacles."

Mira Kestrel: "Thank you, Evelyn. That—" (The gratitude in your voice is steady; you mean it.) "—that will make a difference."

Evelyn: (softly) "We're counting on you. And on hope."

Hope, when spoken by the mayor, has a formal quality, like a seal on a grant. It doesn't feel naive. It feels authorized.

[Visual: Mid-shot of Kai Tan arriving, backpack clutched over one shoulder. He runs a hand through his cropped, blue hair and swivels a protest flyer into his palm like a token.]

Kai Tan: "I'll mobilize the youth crews for the berm reinforcement. We can do evenings and weekends—people want to help." (He's earnest; there's friction under his eagerness—a sense that mobilizing is also bargaining for agency.)

Mira Kestrel: "I want your team on the living materials side—planting and early marsh trials. It keeps the community involved in the habitat work rather than just watching construction."

Kai: (a half-smile) "Fine—delegated to community theater." (He brightens.) "Just tell me where to meet them."

You issue directions with a clarity you haven't been allowed in months. It feels, briefly, like standing at the helm and the town's latitude changing under your hand. Contractors call to confirm schedules. Permits scan through the municipal portal like a surprised applause. The lab hums with a productive, industrious noise: the sound of momentum.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Double-check the permit timelines on the tablet") -> Reaction: "You scroll through the permit queue—each green check a small victory. You mark the construction window and mentally slot in community planting days. The calendar's neatness makes your chest unclench." || Choice B ("Take a walk to the docks to see the first crews") -> Reaction: "You grab your jacket and step outside; the dock air is salt-sliced and electric with activity. Men and women in neon vests lift raw materials with practiced motion, and you realize your decision already has hands behind it."]


[Scene: Saltmarsh Research Lab | Later Morning — Coordination Meeting]

[Visual: Long table strewn with maps, coffee cups, a battered Polaroid stuck to the wall—a photo of a younger Jonah holding a small flatfish. Jonah's presence is a memory that reaches through the room.]
[Music: Brightening strings; low brass hinting at resolve]

Asha pins a printed sea-gate section on the corkboard. The drawing is austere—smooth curves that promise strength, bolts annotated like punctuation. Her voice when she explains is brisk, each sentence a crisp brick in a growing structure.

Asha: "We'll prioritize the highpoint near the pump station, then sequence the berms around critical infrastructure. Contractors estimate ninety days for the sea-gate shell; we'll stage with temporary coffer dams."

Mira Kestrel: "And community notification?" (You ask because everything that moves through this town needs to be seen, heard, and owned.)

Asha: "Standard protocol: notices, relocation support if necessary, and an appeals channel." (She taps the tablet, bringing up a standard operating flow.) "We'll quick-track social services to mitigate displacement."

Mira Kestrel: (softly) "If there must be relocation, I want us to pair it with direct offers—assistance with moving, options for retained leases, and marsh restoration jobs. People need a way to stay connected to this place."

Asha: (hesitates—almost imperceptible) "We'll craft specialist packages. But we must accept some loss as part of triage to save the wider population."

The word 'triage' lands like a clinical scalpel. You find your hands tightening—both to the tablet and to the memory of a house that might be moved. Lian's notations, however, are reassuring: data-backed approximations that show targeted protection can reduce the number of households needing long-term relocation.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "The model suggests targeted hardening reduces community-wide risk while preserving corridors for future marsh migration. It's not a perfect solution, but it's robust in the short term."

Asha: "Robust is what we need right now."

You feel the momentum in the room: the mechanics of bureaucracy, the cold clarity of engineering, the soft arithmetic of lived losses. Still, there is a hopeful current—decisions being made swiftly, a village's arteries getting sutured.

[Sound: Footsteps on the wooden lab floor as you step toward the window. Outside, far along the boardwalk, Jonah stands watching, his coat flapping faintly in the breeze. He is a silhouette against the water—solid, weathered, eyes narrowed with calculation.]

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Walk down to Jonah and speak to him there") -> Reaction: "You pull your jacket tight and step out onto the boardwalk. Jonah's face loosens when he sees you; you exchange a look that is equal parts gratitude and concern. The conversation is low, private, the harbor noise swallowing most words." || Choice B ("Signal him with a wave and return to the meeting") -> Reaction: "You lift your hand, a small, functional gesture. Jonah nods and turns away slowly, hands sliding into his pockets. You return to the table with the image of his silhouette in your mind like a promise you have yet to honor."]


[Scene: Boardwalk | Afternoon]

[Visual: Late sun paints the harbor in warm ochre; the boardwalk planks are a patchwork of repairs and salt-stained history. Jonah stands near an algae-slick rope, a Polaroid camera hanging from his neck.]
[Music: Gentle, hopeful cello with a hint of wind chimes]

If you chose to approach (Choice A):
You step onto the boardwalk. The air is coarse with brine and the town's noise—the clank of a winch, the distant laughter of crew members. Jonah watches you come, and grace arrives in the way he folds his hands behind his back, as if waiting for permission to speak.

Jonah Reyes: "You look good in that coat." (He tries to make a joke; it lands as a small, honest thing.) "You're commanding men and machines now, Mira."

Mira Kestrel: "Feels strange to be handed a tablet and told I'm in charge." (You smile, and something loosens in your chest.) "But it's the town, Jonah. It matters."

Jonah Reyes: (he studies you, pride threaded with worry) "You weren't the only one who wanted this. Don't let them make the people—" (he searches for a measurable way to say 'people' without losing it) "—feel like they're collateral."

Mira Kestrel: "I won't. We'll pair the structure work with jobs, with participation. We won't let this be a thing done to Tidehaven."

Jonah Reyes: (a slow exhale, gratitude and fear mixed) "Good. Because I need to believe you can do both."

The exchange stretches like a rope. His hands find yours, callused and warm; you don't move away. The touch is not entirely romantic—it's solidarity, and that's as close to safety as either of you has dared in months.

If you signaled and returned (Choice B):
You stay in the lab and watch Jonah from the window. He sees your wave, and the moment cracks like sun through fog—comforting, private. You resume your work with an image of his watchful, steadfast shape floating behind your attention. It steadies you, like an anchor you can rely on once the council votes.

Either way, Jonah's expression is a map of pride and worry: proud that you have an opportunity to save the town, worried about the people who might be forced to choose between home and survival. You carry that look back into the lab with you.

[Visual: Cut back to Saltmarsh Research Lab; afternoon light slants across the maps. Crews begin to assemble outside; the sound of mechanical work filters in through the open door.]
[Sound: Distant hammering; the murmur of organized activity]

Kai's crew assembles at the loading bay, youth lined with shovels and determination. Evelyn phones in a procedural update: permits stamped, council briefing scheduled. The first concrete mixers rattle across the boardwalk; you catch the sound like a benediction.

Mira Kestrel: (internal) Your hands steady on the tablet. There is a new weight and a new clarity. For the first time in a long while, action matches intent.

Dr. Lian Zhou: (quietly, to you) "This acceleration reduces risk quickly. It doesn't erase grief, but it keeps the town standing while we work on the longer ecological solutions."

You nod. The projects are a scaffolding for futures—some technical, some human. There is relief in that scaffolding: the pump station won't fail under the first severe surge in the modeled window; some low-lying streets will have a fighting chance.

[Visual: Dusk approaches; the lab lights come on with a warm spill. Outside, crews take a pause; conversations flutter like small, hopeful birds.]
[Sound: Soft chatter; a distant harmonica—someone playing on the boardwalk; the sea murmurs]

As night moves in, you walk the length of the lab, touching maps, checking schematics, adjusting a timeline here and there. Complaints have begun to whisper—neighbors worried about who will be asked to move, elderly residents fretting over gardens. The town is talking quietly at first, then with more insistence. You listen, file concerns, and make notes to address them in tomorrow's brief.

Mira Kestrel: (internal) The compass taps against your sternum, a measured reminder. Authority feels good when it buys time and reduces suffering. It tastes like strong coffee and salt. But the brass against skin also vibrates with the small, unspooling questions you cannot fix with concrete: who counts as critical infrastructure, whose history is prioritized, where the line between preservation and displacement will finally be drawn.

Evelyn: (over the speaker) "Mira, the council briefing is set for two days. We need your recommendation finalized. I'll want visuals and a short Q&A on community support measures."

Mira Kestrel: "Understood. We'll have a phased plan, community liaisons assigned, and a clear migration assistance package."

Evelyn: "Good. We need certainty to keep funding flowing."

[Music: Rising violin motif, hopeful, building toward the next scene]

You stand by the window and watch the town breathe—the repaired planks, the crews sleeping in vans, Jonah's silhouette a dark, steady presence on the shore. For a moment, panic eases into productivity. The exposed arteries of Tidehaven are being bandaged in real time. You feel an unfamiliar authority sharpen into resolve: you can make decisions that save people now. The knowledge is both a balm and a responsibility that tightens the chest like a vow.

[Visual: Close-up on the compass pendant tapping twice against your sternum as the room darkens; the brass gleams in the lab light.]
[Sound: The soft, hopeful piano returns, trailing upward]

You prepare your presentation—maps, timelines, human-centered provisions. You rehearse answers; you call Dr. Lian for clarifications; you and Asha refine the narrative into a script the council can accept: fast, decisive, and protective.

Asha: (low, almost offhand) "Confidence is contagious. Speak clearly, show the numbers, show the human supports. They'll sign."

Mira Kestrel: (internal) You want to believe that is true. You allow yourself to trust it for now.

[Visual: Fade to a long shot of Tidehaven at dusk—the harbor a ribbon of molten color, salt-gray roofs relieved by welding lights and small, steady fires of work lamps.]
[Music: Swells into an uplifting chord]

There are still questions—you can feel them like eddies at your feet. Whispers about who will be told to move when the tide shifts thread through the crowds. But with permits stamped, crews mobilized, and funds routed, the town now has a fighting chance. The air tastes of possibility.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 8
}