[Scene: Tidehaven Boardwalk | Dawn]
[Visual: Fog rolling low over weathered planks; neon sign flickering over a shuttered bait shop]
[Music: Sparse, somber piano with distant low synth swell]
[Sound: Gull cries muffled by mist, distant diesel cough of a single working boat, soft creak of the boardwalk underfoot]

You step off the morning bus with the rest of the fog still clinging to your coat. Salt and diesel stitch the air together—one sharp, mineral; the other oily and stubborn. The world around you is muffled and close, as if sound itself is being softened by the harbor's breath.

Your fingers close around the spine of your weatherproof notebook the way someone else might clutch a rosary. The cover is scuffed; tide charts and penciled annotations fan like a private map of loss and repair. You feel the brass of your mother's compass pendant warm against your sternum, a pulse of memory under your jacket. It is small and heavy with years. You tuck the knot of your hair harder at the nape of your neck—sea-green tips hidden, practical—and study the boardwalk as if it might tell you what to do next.

The harbor is quieter than you remember. A few boats scuff in their moorings, hulls patched with mismatched timber; a line of planks looks newer in places, roughly repaired. A neon sign over a shuttered bait shop sputters its last blue and pink before the mist swallows it. Puddles on the boards reflect broken sky, and every step sends up a faint sour of algae and wet rope.

[Visual: Show Jonah leaning against an iron railing, polaroid camera slung over his shoulder]
[Sound: Jonah's boot scuff against wood]

Jonah sees you before you reach him. His hair is thick and sun-bleached at the tips, the salt in it catching the weak light. He nods once, the corner of his mouth pulling into the familiar skeptical smile that always reads like an apology and a promise at the same time.

Jonah Reyes: "You made it back in time to see the tide take the town in the fog." (half-grin, eyes softening)

Your chest tightens at the words—the old ache you carry for the night your father's boat didn't come back. You thought the ache would have thinned with distance, but it has only collected layers: what-ifs, the sound of rain on canvas, the classroom where you learned new equations that felt curiously useless when waves moved faster than policy.

Mira Kestrel: "I'm here." (voice steadier than you feel) "The bus was late. Traffic, somehow, between nowhere and here."

Jonah Reyes: "Traffic." (he snorts) "Only in Tidehaven does 'traffic' mean a delivery truck stuck at the lighthouse and a gull sitting on someone's bumper."

He steps forward and you notice the talisman at his neck, carved wood worn smooth by the same hands that once taught him to knot nets. His sweater still smells faintly of fish and bonfire smoke, grounding in a way that makes the world around you feel more fragile.

Mira Kestrel: "How's the harbor this morning? Less... frantic?"

Jonah hesitates before he answers. The hesitation tells you more than the words will.

Jonah Reyes: "Quiet, mostly. Folks are getting nervous, Mira. Old Bento's been down here since before light, muttering to the water like it owes him something." (shrugs) "Evelyn's got new placards. There's a stack of printed flyers near the post—city planner seal on the top one. People are talking about an outsider who's supposed to be showing up for the meeting."

You follow Jonah's gaze to a small heap of pamphlets half-buried under a rain-sodden bench. The top one bears a formal logo; the type is crisp and municipal. You don't need to know more to feel the shift in the air—when bureaucratic paper arrives, the conversation leaves the benches and moves into rooms with closed doors.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Smile and move to pick up the pamphlet") -> Reaction: "You let your fingers brush the pamphlet, feeling the slick paper through your glove. For a moment you want to read every line, to know the hard edges of whatever plan is coming. But the fog blurs the ink like a warning." || Choice B ("Keep your hands in your pockets and look out at the harbor") -> Reaction: "You choose the harbor instead—watching the water, the line of boats, the way the fog lifts and reveals the patched hulls. It's easier to count what's already broken than to inventory the threats on paper."] 

Jonah watches you make the small choice and doesn't press. There is a patience in him that betrays the man who has spent long days mending what storms have broken. It steadies you; it also digs a little deeper into the old guilt.

Jonah Reyes: "You should talk to Bento," he says after a beat. "He'll tell you what the tides say and what the town remembers. And Evelyn—she's juggling a million things. You'll want to tell her what you're planning at the lab."

Mira Kestrel: "Bento always knows the old rhythms." (you think of his hands—the calluses, the way he plucks a rope like a stringed instrument) "And Evelyn... I owe her an explanation for leaving."

Jonah Reyes: "We all owe each other explanations, don't we?" (he looks at you straight on) "But explanations won't stop the water."

The words hang between you, heavy and unrefined, like unturned soil. You want to say more—apologize, promise, unpack the years you spent away—but the fog seems to swallow speech whole. You settle instead for small truths.

Mira Kestrel: "I'm going to the Saltmarsh Lab. Dr. Zhou wants to run a quick survey before the council meeting." (as if listing a to-do will make the day steadier)

Jonah Reyes: "You'll find her paperwork and numbers and charts, yeah. But watch for the faces in the room this afternoon—numbers land differently when someone's livelihood's on the line." (he touches the brim of his scarf, a private gesture) "Evelyn'll be looking for compromises. Bento will be looking for memory. And if that pamphlet's what I think, we're in for a talk with someone who makes quick lists and fewer promises."

[Visual: Close-up on the pamphlet; logo half-visible in the mist]
[Sound: A muted thump as a small boat rocks against its mooring]
[Smell: Damp paper and old coffee from a thermos Jonah carries]

A shadow moves by the railing—Bento, stooped, hat pulled low, gaze on the water. He steps toward you with the slow, inevitable certainty of tide.

Bento Morais: "You home, Mira?" (voice like rope; warm and rough)

Mira Kestrel: "Home, for now." (you say it and the word feels thin)

Bento squints at you, then at your hands, the notebook, the pendant that glints when the mist parts for a heartbeat.

Bento Morais: "Your father would've liked it here today. The sea's got a mind for gatherings." (a small, almost bitter chuckle) "You keep those charts close. They saved more than pride in my day."

Bento's eyes flick to Jonah, then to the pamphlet, then back to you—the map of loyalties and losses marked on his face.

Bento Morais: "Evelyn's got that meeting this afternoon. City types and plan-sellers, I expect. You'll do well to bring neither their blind faith nor your own apologies; bring the town's memory. We'll need it."

Mira Kestrel: "I—" (you fumble for words) "I will. I want the lab data to show what's possible without losing what Tidehaven is."

Bento studies you, then nods as if the nod affirms more than your words. He turns away before the conversation deepens into the things neither of you are ready to name.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Bento for a walk to the old pier") -> Reaction: "You ask, voice low. Bento's face softens, and he falls into step beside you, telling you about the lines of fish that used to run past the pilings." || Choice B ("Head straight to the Saltmarsh Research Lab alone") -> Reaction: "You leave Bento with a brief nod and make for the lab. The walk is quick and your mind sharpens into list after list—samples to collect, models to run, words to find for a room full of anxious faces."] 

You let the boardwalk loosen under your boots and head toward the lab—an old boathouse turned to research with its greenhouse angles and salt-streaked panes. The town folds around you: the mayor's placards pinned along the lamp posts, a cluster of volunteers hauling seed trays toward the Greenhouse Collective, a child watching the water like someone cataloguing tides of a different kind.

[Scene Transition: Walk toward Saltmarsh Research Lab | Time: Just after dawn]
[Visual: The lab's glass extensions fogged; inside, LED light picks out jars and topographic monitors]
[Sound: The thud of your steps on concrete; a distant radio left on at low volume]
[Smell: Moist soil and antiseptic, with a faint undertone of rot from the marsh samples]

The Saltmarsh Research Lab sits where the boathouse once claimed views over the harbor—now wrapped in solar shades and a humming quiet. Dr. Lian Zhou's name is taped to the inner door in neat, careful handwriting. Inside, monitors glow with teal and ochre layers; sediment cores lie like the spines of tiny buried worlds.

Mira Kestrel: "Morning, Lian." (you call as you enter)

No answer at first. Then the soft clack of a keyboard, the scent of coffee, and the rustle of maps.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "You timed it right. I was just pulling in last night's telemetry." (she emerges from behind a monitor, salt on her boots) "We have a narrow window before the council starts. The tide models sharpen when we fold in local sediment accretion rates."

Mira Kestrel: "How bad does the model look with current funding?" (you ask because asking is a kind of defense)

Dr. Lian Zhou: (takes a breath) "It isn't about 'bad' and 'worse' anymore, Mira. It's about which losses we accept now to avoid a catastrophe later. And the difference between those two can feel like betrayal to someone standing on the shore. We can model erosion, we can estimate marsh growth, but we can't model the weight of a decision on a fishing family's hands."

Her words land with a clinical softness. You touch the pendant beneath your jacket—brass, neutral, steady. The lab smells like algae and metal and the ache of sleep deprivation. You realize, with a cold, precise clarity, that the day will be carved around conversations where no answer will feel whole.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "Evelyn called earlier. She wants both the science and the story. Bento is set to speak for community memory. Someone with the city's plan is supposed to arrive before noon." (she looks down at a tablet, then up at you) "Will you present the living shorelines part? My models need someone who can sell the human side, not just the numbers."

Mira Kestrel: "I'll do it." (the words are steadier than you expected; steadiness is a currency here)

Dr. Lian Zhou: "Good. I'll have the latest figures printed. But Mira—" (she hesitates, which surprises you—Lian rarely hesitates) "Don't go in thinking you can please everyone. There will be people who want quick walls and firm answers, and there will be people who measure worth in nets and stories. You're going to be in the middle."

You nod, and the room tilts for a second with the weight of that middle. You think of your father, of nights when the sea sounded like a thing with teeth; you think of the promises you made to yourself on rooftops far from Tidehaven: to return and fix what could be fixed. The word "fix" feels brittle now.

[Sound: A hollow knock at the lab door, feet on gravel; a shadow passes the lab window]
[Visual: A glint of a municipal badge on a pamphlet seen earlier]

You glance at the clock. The afternoon council meeting looms like weather on the horizon—some change coming up the line. Your throat closes a little at the idea of sitting at a table with Evelyn, Bento, Jonah, the city's planner, and a crowd whose livelihoods balance on whatever you say next.

You breathe in salt and metal and the cheap coffee Lian favors. You open your notebook and flip to a blank page. The tide charts you keep are methodical, patient. But the people who will be in the room this afternoon are not charts. They are stories that the models will have to learn to hold.

Outside, the fog presses against the windows like a hand. Inside, the monitors glow with topographic waves. The boardwalk and the lab and the town all align for a narrow, fragile moment—everything on the brink of being decided by words, figures, and the stubborn, human insistence on staying.

You button your jacket all the way to the throat. The brass compass feels like something to steady yourself with, not an answer. You collect the printed figures Lian slides across the bench. The afternoon will demand more than charts. It will demand you.

The meeting will be the first true test of whether practical engineering and memory can share a shoreline.

You step toward the door.

[Visual: The lab door opens onto the foggy boardwalk; the town waits]
[Music: Piano chord holds, unresolved]

You move out into the fog with the pages in your hand and a town full of watching eyes. The mayoral meeting waits. The boardwalk creaks underfoot. The taste of diesel and salt is constant, a reminder that the world here is always negotiating its next loss.

You think of choices you cannot unmake, of promises you cannot fully keep, and of a room where people will expect either a shield or a map. You feel the fall of that expectation—heavy, inevitable, like tide over stone.

[LINEAR JUMP]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 2
}