[Scene: Tidehaven Town Hall | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Warm amber lamps illuminate battered oak benches; maps and petitions pinned to cork boards; a brass bell sits on the council dais]
[Music: Low, uneasy cello undercurrent; distant gull calls carried faintly through open windows]
[Sound: Paper shuffling, the hiss of a coffee urn, a loose draught in the sash windows]

You sit with your compass pendant tucked under your field jacket, fingers worrying its chain until the brass is warm against your skin. The town hall smells like old wood and black coffee—comforting and sharp at once—like a place that has kept its promises and also its resentments. Light pools in the grooves of the benches; when people lean forward the amber washes the lines at their eyes.

Evelyn moves through the room with small, efficient gestures: folding petitions, nudging a developer memo toward the dais, offering a smile that's practiced into exhaustion. Her hair is the color of pewter; her hands are quick with paper and people. She stops at your row, says nothing more than a squeeze to your shoulder. It feels like an assignment and an apology all at once.

Evelyn Sato: "Mira, thank you for coming. The council—it's... complicated today."

You nod, because words would make it heavier. You can feel the room tightening around the maps at the front: teal overlays, ochre topography, a neat grid where lives and tides and budgets have been translated into figures. Dr. Lian Zhou sits by a laptop, hands folded like an offering. Bento sits near the back, the old wool cap pulled down low, eyes small and watchful.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "The models show a two-in-three chance of inundation in the low-lying east lots within twenty years if nothing changes." (She taps the screen; teal becomes a dark smear.) "There's a window to act. The timing is what matters."

Bento Morais doesn't look at the screen. He looks at you instead, and for a second you feel the long weight of the harbor's stories—boats, nets, harvests learned by hand. His voice is dry as rope.

Bento Morais: "When I was a boy, the sea took more than fish. It took the smug look off the faces of men who thought the world wouldn't move. We need plans that listen to the tide, not shout at it."

Before you can reply, the doors open. Asha Verma slides in like a blade—slate-gray coat, tablet glowing with GIS overlays, steel-blue eyes that scan the room with surgical calm. She doesn't smile. She lays a stack of neatly bound proposals on the table and sets the tablet face-up where everyone can see a map segmented into zones with hard lines and labels.

Asha Verma: "Regional scale interventions will reduce risk for the largest number of people. Flood gates, reinforced berms at critical chokepoints, and coordinated managed retreat in the most exposed neighborhoods. These are proven measures." (Her voice is precise; she pushes up her glasses.) "We cannot afford ad hoc solutions when sea level rise is a matter of months and years."

Her words land like cold stones. They are efficient, final, and they carry a moral clarity you admire and fear. The room splits along the edges of that clarity: faces nodding at the logic, faces closing around cultural memory.

Jonah arrives then—late, tracking in harbor air: salt, diesel, the faint musk of wet wool. He smells like the docks, like hands that have tied knots and mended nets and, despite his rough coat, he carries a kind of bright defiance. His boots leave dark crescent prints on the floor as he finds a place near the front. He unrolls his sleeves with the habit of someone used to making things work with both hands.

Jonah Reyes: "We can plant marsh grass. Build oyster reefs. Living shorelines work with the water instead of trying to stop it. You don't need to lock people out of their homes to keep them safe." (He looks toward the people whose livelihoods depend on the harbor.) "Give folks work, give 'em a reason to stay."

Asha's jaw tightens. Jonah's words are warm and immediate; they smell of mud and morning nets. The difference between Asha's language—hard lines and maps—and Jonah's—salt and soil—makes the room sound like two different seas.

Asha Verma: "Respectfully, Mr. Reyes, living shorelines are insufficient where chronic inundation accelerates. They buy time, but time is not the same as safety for those in the narrowest floodplains."

Jonah Reyes: (leaning forward) "They buy people a life. They keep kids here who'd otherwise be sent away. You speak of safety like it's only bricks and steel. It's also about access, about being able to get your nets in the water at dawn."

The council murmurs. Evelyn watches you, weighing the room like a seamstress laying patterns against cloth. Her eyes are an island of tired hope. She speaks then, her voice quiet but carrying.

Evelyn Sato: "Mira has worked on both kinds of plans. She knows the science, she knows our people. Mira—would you—" (She stops, the sentence incomplete like a map without a legend.) "We need someone to shepherd a pilot. Someone to bridge the data and the dock."

You feel every pair of eyes on you. It's not just professional expectation—it's the town's archive seeking a translator. Jonah's gaze is steady and warm; Asha's is clinical and expectant. Bento's expression is weathered into something unreadable, and Dr. Zhou's is pragmatic and patient.

For a beat you imagine both futures: steel rolling across the harbor, and hands planting tubes of spartina into muddy banks. You can see the cost of each in faces—grandmothers being moved, small fishing businesses rerouted, children learning new rhythms. Your chest tightens.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Let Jonah finish his point, listen first") -> Reaction: "You close your notebook and lean back, letting Jonah's cadence settle into the room. He takes it as permission, and his next words curl around the council like smoke—practical, angry, tender. You take notes in the margins of your mind: recruitment of volunteers, phased marsh planting, local training programs." || Choice B ("Speak up now to frame the technical constraints") -> Reaction: "You press your fingers into the warm brass of the compass and stand before anyone can forget the models. Your voice is measured; you speak of thresholds, failure modes, and timelines. The room quiets in a different way—an attentive hush that is a ledger and a plea."] 

Jonah takes your silence as an opening, and his multi-turn argument flows: anecdotes of nights spent repairing eroded banks, names of fishermen whose permits are at stake, a hand slapping the table to punctuate that these are people's lives. You respond—point by point you balance lived knowledge against the models Dr. Zhou slides across the table. The conversation becomes a negotiation between scales: the intimate labor of community and the long arithmetic of projections.

Dr. Lian Zhou: "The simulations are not abstract. We can model phased approaches—integrating living shorelines where they reduce fetch and installing hard infrastructure at choke points identified by the model. Hybrid solutions can be tested through pilots."

Asha: "Phased approaches require centralized coordination. The risk is local optimism delaying necessary evacuations and failing to secure federal funding for larger barriers. We must be decisive."

Jonah: (brittle) "Decisive doesn't mean heartless. You talk about evacuations like they're just dots on a spreadsheet. These are homes. People are not data points to be shifted on a map."

Asha: (cool) "I am not proposing anything reckless. I'm proposing triage—prioritize lives, not sentimentality."

Evelyn: (soft, exhausted) "And who decides which lives are prioritized? We are not a laboratory. We are a town."

Your notebook fills with tide-lines and underlined phrases: "triage," "pilot," "managed retreat." Bento mutters something that sounds like an old proverb; it lands in the room like a slow drumbeat.

Bento Morais: "There's a seam in every decision. The thread you pull determines the shape left behind. Don't pull it without thinking how it'll fray the hands that hold it."

Conversations fragment into side arguments. Someone brings up developer memos you can see at the edge of the table—letters about investment, about building higher. Someone else mentions grant deadlines and federal prioritization. The council chamber becomes a collage of competing tempos: the clipped professional rhythm of Asha's templates; Jonah's staccato, earthy insistence; Evelyn's careful, conciliatory stitches. You feel pulled by each tide.

You try to interleave Lian's hilltop models—those teal-and-ochre overlays—with Bento's oral histories in your head, a collage that refuses tidy synthesis. You think of your father’s boat and the empty harbor after the storm that made you leave. You think of why you returned: not only to fix infrastructure, but to repair the human seams that buckle under policy.

When the discussion turns toward who should lead a pilot program, the room narrows again. Evelyn's face is a map of politics and friendship. She leans in.

Evelyn Sato: "Mira, the council trusts you. Would you shepherd a pilot project? You'll have resources and Dr. Zhou's data support."

Her sentence is an offering and a burden. Jonah's posture shifts; his hands clench invisible rope. Asha's fingers rest on her tablet, a tiny signal that she expects you to decline or to shift roles into a more formal, technical lead under regional authority.

Asha Verma: "We need someone who can implement at scale and ensure compliance with regional safety standards. Your technical leadership would be invaluable."

Jonah Reyes: (roughly) "We need someone who will stand with the people—not hand them an evacuation plan and leave."

They are not merely asking; they are staking something on your answer: livelihood, legacy, safety, and the shape of the town. Every syllable you might speak will tilt a balance.

You want to say you can do both—to be the bridge that keeps the harbor open and the town safe. But the room knows how bridges fall: under too much load or rigidly built without giving. You can feel the weight of that possible failure like a bruise across your sternum.

The bell on the dais tolls—deep, old brass—and the sound resonates under your feet. It marks more than the hour; it marks the town's patience fraying into urgency. People begin to gather their coats. The conversation doesn't resolve; it ossifies into a list of unfinished sentences and tentative commitments.

You stand slowly, the compass resting warm at your throat. You think of the boardwalk and the pale silver line of the sea, of Jonah's hands and Asha's precise points and Evelyn's tired bridges. Your notebook is full of fragments: promises, petitions, and questions without neat answers.

[Visual: Crossfade to Boardwalk at Dusk | Cool salt-gray light; the town bell echoes]
[Music: Solo piano, sparse and somber]
[Sound: Shoreline water lapping softly; distant gulls]

You walk outside into a fog that smells of brine and wet wood. The boardwalk creaks under your boots; the harbor is a sheet of thin silver, reflective and small against the horizon. The bell's echo fades into the regular breathing of the sea. You are alone—no easy resolution, only the continuing weight of choice.

You feel the compass press under your collarbone as if reminding you that direction exists even if the maps are disputed. The town is holding its breath. You have been asked to lead; every path you can see splits into costs you are not sure you can carry.

[Sound: The bell tolls once more, softer now; a single gull cries]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}