[Scene: Saltgarden Research Lab | Late Afternoon]
[Visual: Glass conservatory panes streaked with rain; trays of kelp and eelgrass glow a wet green beneath diffused light]
[Music: Sparse, low strings; a single piano note repeats, unresolved]
[Sound: Water drip from an overhead gutter; the hum of pumps and a soft thump as a crate is set down]

You step into Saltgarden and the air changes — cooler, salt-sweet and chlorophyll-thick. Glass breathes condensation around the frame of the conservatory; every surface holds a tiny map of yesterday's rain. Your boots make a dull echo against damp concrete. Your notebook is tucked under your arm like a protest sign you haven't raised yet; the coral pendant at your throat shifts warm against skin.

Ilias is already here, shoulder bent over a tray as if he can coax the future to sprout by touch alone. His hair is tied back in a loose knot; the sun-bleached tips halo his neck. He looks up when you arrive, and for a heartbeat the lab's hum quiets to the space between his words.

Ilias Navarro: "You came early. Thought you might want to see the new trays before the light shifts."

You don't answer right away. You let the smell of wet seaweed and iron fill you. The eelgrass cutting he held out the night before pulses in your memory — green and fragile and full of argument.

Maya Kestrel: "I wanted to see if the cuttings held. To know if 'small' is enough."

Ilias Navarro: (smiles, hesitant) "Small's been doing most of the heavy lifting lately. Folks in the flats have been hand-planting in shifts. It's not glamorous, but it's honest work."

You watch his hands map the veins of a blade of kelp. There's a quiet intensity to him that keeps you from turning this into a lecture you already have the grammar for.

Ilias Navarro: "There are bigger labs interested, though. They—" (he pauses, choosing) "—Seren's team offered me regional access, Maya. Full benches, satellite equipment, a real chance to accelerate trials."

Your chest tightens in a way that feels familiar, like a stitch pulled too hard.

Maya Kestrel: "In exchange?"

Ilias Navarro: (looking away for a moment) "Validation. Protocols. They'll compare the kelp beds to engineered wetlands. If our methods check out against their models, they'll fund scaled restoration. But they'd ask us to run some pilot frameworks Seren proposes. Things with hard constraints. She wants proof the biology can be synched with engineering timelines."

You can hear the words before you can let them mean anything beyond the thrum under your skin. Engineered wetlands. Synched timelines. Code words for speed and control — words that make your city council smile and your grandmother's nets shudder.

Maya Kestrel: "And if what they call 'proof' becomes a story they sell? If it's a lever for relocation, for walling people out of the coast?"

Ilias Navarro: (he rubs his thumb along a tag on a tray, distracted) "I know what those risks are. I grew up in a dory; I know the weight of what's at stake. I'm tired of being told to pick between living and surviving. I thought — maybe — that by working inside the system, we could steer it."

You want to trust him. You want to imagine a net wide enough for both the gentleness of hands and the muscle of machines. But the past is a ledger with ink that still stains your fingers.

Maya Kestrel: "Or you could let them polish your work into a glossy catalog of compliance. We don't get to decide how their models translate into people's kitchens."

Ilias Navarro: (frustrated, voice soft) "You think I don't know that? You think I want their stamp? Ilias looked at you, and something real flashed across his face — not a promise, but the ache of being between scales.

Ilias Navarro: "All I can offer is my honesty now. I can try to keep us centered. But I need to know if you'll stand with me when doors open I didn't plan to open."

Your fingers find the rim of a tray and leave a damp print. You can imagine the town's boardwalk: banners fluttering, futures argued into the sand. You can imagine Etta hammering a hand into your ribs, demanding names be kept, not traded.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Press Ilias for details about Seren's pilot") -> Reaction: "You lean in, voice low. 'Who from her team? What's the oversight? Who signs the MOUs?'" || Choice B ("Tell Ilias you need time") -> Reaction: "You step back from the tray and fold your arms. 'Give me the details in writing. I need to sleep on the scope before I answer.'"]


[Visual: The conservatory glass fogs as a cloud rolls in; light flattens]
[Music: The piano repeats a lower, more insistent pattern]
[Sound: Your phone buzzes in your pocket — a dull vibration through your thigh]

You pull out the phone. Rafi's name blinks in the corner like a flare. You almost don't want to open the message, but fingers already slide. His text is short, raw like a fresh cut.

[Sound: Notification ping]
[Rafi (Text Message): "Leak: Seren's firm funding relocation pilots in Southmarsh. Not just prototypes—paid incentives for families. Mayor's office will spin it as 'voluntary.' —R"]

The words read like a slap. Southmarsh is one town over, a place that used to trade herring with Hearthbend. You scroll back to the lab; the trays dim and the chlorophyll takes on a different color, the green of something under negotiation.

Ilias Navarro: (quiet) "Southmarsh… that would make sense. If Seren can show a quick win there, the regional board will lend her credibility. It could speed funding. But—"

He doesn't finish. You can tell the rest in the way his hands lift from the tray, leaving a small arc of salt and water in the air.

Maya Kestrel: "And if 'quick win' becomes 'we abandon the slow work that keeps people here'?"

Ilias Navarro: "Then we've harmed the very bodies we're trying to save. I know that. I don't want to be a hand that signs someone else's erasure."

He meets your eyes with a steadiness that doesn't quite resolve the knot of your doubt. The lab's lamps hum; you can hear the harbor tide under the concrete, the same tide that writes timelines on bread crusts and boat hulls.

[Scene Transition: Walk from Saltgarden to Mangrove Patch | Dusk]
[Visual: The path narrows; salt grass brushes your calves; the sky bruises purple]
[Music: A low cello enters, minor, a slow descent]
[Sound: Mud squelching underfoot; distant gull calls]

You walk toward the Mangrove Patch — a place you visit when the choices feel too loud. Twilight threads between half-sunken hulks; roots make a cathedral of shadow. The air tastes of peat and old iron. Etta stands beneath a leaning beam, small as a weathered marker but immovable.

Etta Muir: (without preamble) "Maya. Come here."

You step closer. Her fingers are gnarled as a dock rope. She does not mince this moment with pleasantries. She presses a hand into yours — papery, warm from the day, the pressure firm enough to make the world shrink to the size of a palm.

Etta Muir: "People's memories live in the bottom of the harbor and in the nets, child. Names, recipes, rites. You don't hand those off to a ledger for the sake of tidy numbers."

You swallow. Her words are not an accusation as much as a warning written in tidal terms. She tilts her chin toward the mangroves where new shoots are already trying to keep the mud from sliding away.

Maya Kestrel: "They say speed is safety, Etta. They say we can't wait on hands when the sea is moving faster."

Etta Muir: (bitter laugh) "Safety sold to you in a white paper is still a sale, not shelter. You know what those quick fixes cost more than anyone's budget: names. Not everyone thinks preserving the past is worth the price, but I do. Do you?"

Her eyes search yours, old and unblinking, as if measuring whether the town's ledger will remain in human handwriting.

Maya Kestrel: (you feel the guilt, old and durable) "I... I want to keep everything. I want a map that holds both the livelihood and the markers of the town's story. But money moves in its own tide."

Etta Muir: "Then pick whose tide you answer to. Pick the people who will eat the fish you help save, or pick the polished plan that will put them on buses."

Her hand tightens. You hear the sea like an impatient clock in your bones. Rafi's text is a ghost between your ribs. Ilias's plea hangs like a skein.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Promise Etta you'll stand with the town publicly") -> Reaction: "You take a breath and squeeze back. 'I'll speak up. They'll hear our names before they hear their contracts.'" || Choice B ("Tell Etta you'll try to broker with Seren") -> Reaction: "Your voice lowers. 'If there's a way to get money without losing people, I will try to find it. I won't let it be a takeover.' || Choice C ("Tell Etta you need to keep working quietly with Ilias") -> Reaction: "You look down at the mud between your boots. 'I want to build proof first. If it's strong enough, it might change the narrative.'"]

Etta's thumb rubs the pad of your hand once, then lets you go. Her expression is unreadable — pride, fear, reproach — a weathered map that resists simple reading.

Etta Muir: "You better mean it, child. Hearts don't mend from reports."

[Visual: The mangrove canopy closes; the last light is a thin knife along the horizon]
[Music: Cello draws lower; strings sustain a single, unresolved chord]
[Sound: Distant, muffled: a truck on the High Tide Boardwalk; a radio sample announcing a civic meeting tomorrow]

You stand there with the mangrove mud squishing between your toes, your notebook heavy in your hand. The carved coral pendant at your throat feels like a hot coal, and you bring your fingers to it as if to anchor yourself.

Your fingers drum in the waterproof notebook — a nervous metronome. Options spool out like lines of tide: banners and public speeches, a handshake with a polished strategist, or slow, stubborn work in tanks and tidal flats until the data is loud enough to drown out other narratives. Each path demands a different kind of surrender.

You think of your sibling's name and how the ocean keeps certain memories by churning them into every loss. You think of Ilias's earnest hands and Etta's small, hard certainty. You taste salt and iron; the choice is not merely technical. It will name whose losses you are willing to declare acceptable.

[Visual: Close-up on the coral pendant; the reflection of the mangroves trembles on its polished curve]
[Music: Music swells for a beat then withdraws, leaving the single unresolved note]

You breathe. The sea wind carries the sound of the town: a distant argument, footsteps on the boardwalk, the murmur of people deciding in rooms with lights on. The decision sits on your tongue like a verdict you don't yet want to speak.

How will you position Hearthbend’s adaptation?

"Campaign publicly for community-led restoration and refuse Seren’s offer."
"Negotiate with Seren to combine engineering funds with local stewardship."
"Work quietly with Ilias to build a replicable low-tech proof-of-concept before declaring policy."

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "How to position Hearthbend’s adaptation:",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Campaign publicly for community-led restoration and refuse Seren’s offer.",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Negotiate with Seren to combine engineering funds with local stewardship.",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Work quietly with Ilias to build a replicable low-tech proof-of-concept before declaring policy.",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}