[Scene: Community Rooftop Garden | Early Evening]
[Visual: Raised beds glow under strings of solar lights; damp terracotta pots glisten. The Saltgarden glassware reflects a thin band of gold from the low sun. Rain barrels breathe faintly in the hush after a shower.]
[Music: Warm sustaining chord, then a slow, minor descent; strings pull like tide-lines]
[Sound: Low chatter of volunteers packing tools; a gull’s distant cry; the soft clink of a trowel against a bucket]

Narration:
You remember the exact way the rooftop smelled the night you chose the open route — earth, drying kelp, and the clean metallic tang of rain on steel. You remember the map under your fingers and the tremor in your own voice when you read the protocol aloud. You remember promises like stitches: maps, watering regimens, volunteer rosters, and a dozen line items written in your battered notebook until the ink blurred.

Maya Kestrel: "We put it all out. Everything we have, everything we've learned."

Narration:
The months that follow are the kind of small miracles people mistake for inevitability. Roofbeds bristle with green; eelgrass plots planted at the mangrove fingers take root in a way your notes predicted; elder fishers who hadn't set nets in years come back to tend nursery frames the way they used to tend children. You watch people stake their flags in the soil again and realize hope is a kind of labor, patient and practical.

[Visual: Montage — hands tucking in seedlings, a child laughing as she waters a trough, a weathered fisher kneeling to test a kelp root.]
[Music: A gentle, bright motif with soft percussion — footsteps and light strums]
[Sound: Laughter, the soft slap of kelp against wood, distant market calls]

Narration:
Ilias walks the perimeter with you at dusk, his notebook tucked in a clear sleeve, camera slung at his hip. His eyes — ocean-blue and slow with satisfaction — find you between the beds. You hold the map again, though now it is an instrument more than an ache.

Ilias Navarro: (soft) "We did the rototilling right on the south beds. The water retention tests were promising today. The volunteers have rhythm."

Maya Kestrel: "We did. It held through the high spray last month better than I expected."

Ilias Navarro: (laughing under his breath) "You always say 'better than expected' like it's a technical term."

Maya Kestrel: (a short exhale) "It’s the quickest way to keep myself from calling it miraculous."

Narration:
You sit on the low brick wall that bounds the garden and feel the evening cool down into your bones. The conversation between you is soft and steady, easy because it has the weight of shared work.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Trace the new contour lines on the map with your finger") -> Reaction: "Your fingertip follows the inked curve of the berm and you find a place where the lines gather too close, a reminder that optimism is measured in inches." || Choice B ("Lean into Ilias and listen as he lists the species they found") -> Reaction: "His voice lists names — 'eelgrass, juvenile flounder, amphipod colonies' — and you let the syllables settle like ballast. For a moment, the future is only biology and breath."]

Narration:
You make small promises on that wall. A picnic on the boardwalk when the first eelgrass meadow is self-sustaining. A repaired boat floor so Etta can take you out without worrying the planks will let her down. The promises are ordinary goods you can both deliver on, and that makes them feel honest.

Ilias Navarro: (voice low) "Come with me when I catalog the inlet this week. There are new shoals where before it was just mud. Two spots I want to mark for transplant trials."

Maya Kestrel: "I'll be there. We need to log everything if we're going to teach others how we did it."

Ilias Navarro: (a pause, then) "Promise we'll keep doing this. Even if funding dries up again... even if—"

Maya Kestrel: (cutting in, softer than you mean to be) "We'll keep doing it. We have each other and the town."

Narration:
You don't say the other thing — that sometimes each other is not enough.

[Scene: Montage — Months Passing | Rooftop Garden, Mangrove Patch, Saltgarden Lab]
[Visual: Time-lapse of seedlings becoming stands; community meetings in the school gym; volunteers hauling reclaimed timber; small boats leaving dawn light for monitoring runs]
[Music: Hopeful motif runs under with occasional dissonant undertow]
[Sound: The rhythm of hammer on nail; low civic chatter; the sea’s constant breath]

Narration:
The protocol spreads — not as a product but as a set of instructions and stories. You tutor neighboring townsfolk on watering schedules and tidal windows. You laugh with Rafi as he prints out a headline that reads "Hearthbend's Open-Source Belfry: How Community Grew a Coast." Etta brings you a thermos of tea and a stern look and says nothing about how her hands shake less now.

Etta Muir: (practical, rough) "You keep at it, girl. Keep teaching 'em the difference between a plug and a patch."

Maya Kestrel: "You tell me when I'm dreaming. You always do."

Etta Muir: (a small, rare smile) "Someone has to be sensible around you."

Narration:
Sense keeps you alive. So does stubbornness. You sleep with a ledger by your bed and the coral pendant against your sternum like a slow metronome.

[Scene: Inlet | Night — Storm Approaches]
[Visual: The sky thickens in an odd way; clouds fold into each other like wet cloth. The tide's color is wrong — deeper and more hungry. Sodium lamps along the boardwalk halo with wind-blown salt. The berms you helped build are small, stitched things against the horizon.]
[Music: Low, insistent drums; brass swells that warn rather than summon]
[Sound: Wind gaining, boards creaking, distant alarmed calls]

Narration:
The storm is a slow betrayal of shapes you thought you understood. The forecast lists the usual numbers — wind speed, expected surge — but then a low-pressure twist shows on the radar as an anomaly. You read the charts at Saltgarden and feel your throat go dry. Everything looks within tolerances until one seam is revealed weak: a stretch of berm you earmarked for volunteer anchoring because material costs saved elsewhere left it lighter than your specs demanded.

Maya Kestrel: (to Ilias, clipped) "We flagged that seam in the last inspection. The anchors there weren't rated for sustained lateral shear."

Ilias Navarro: (a breathless reply) "We reinforced where we could. The volunteers did—"

Maya Kestrel: (interrupting, rough) "Not enough. Not the rated rods. We didn't buy the galvanic ties."

Narration:
You remember the meeting with the town ledger — the choice to publish the protocol and refuse conditional funds. You remember promising transparency and open access instead of strings. You remember the math that said the community could do it, that communal labor could substitute for capital. You remember the line items you let remain thin because they felt expendable then.

[Visual: A map overlay shows the seam's position; storm surge arrows converge there like teeth.]
[Sound: A howl crescendos as the first water pushes higher than the walkway.]

Narration:
The surge finds the seam. Water claws at the berm and then finds purchase where soil is looser, where the stakes have worked themselves half-free. There is a sound you will not forget — a hydraulic groan and then the sudden, salty roar of a breach.

[Sound: Loud rushing water, timber snapping, a child's scream sliced off by distance]
[Music: A single, brutal strike of percussion followed by silence filled with the sound of water]

Narration:
The breach opens where a child's playhouse once stood — a small, painted rectangle of plywood and plastic that the community had built in a single afternoon, the same afternoon you taught kids about tide lines. Now the playhouse becomes a marker of loss, the place where the water takes hold and rips away two small fisheries you've been nurturing.

[Visual: Debris, nets, a weathered nameplate spinning in the foam; eelgrass clutches at debris and is torn free]
[Sound: Mothers calling names; the sickening slap of boats listing; someone sobbing without sound]

Ilias Navarro: (voice breaking) "No— the inlet frames, the nursery—"

Maya Kestrel: (you, shouting into the wind) "Pull what you can! Get people inland!"

Narration:
You run, hands slick with spray, mind narrowing into practical tasks: get the nets, tie off the remaining frames, help the boats. The work is muscle memory and terror. You tie knots you've taught a hundred others, you hoist a soaked tarp over a frame half-buried in mud. You move from task to task until the storm forces you to stand and watch.

[Visual: Dawn — after the storm, the sky a bruised lavender. The inlet is a scar of brown water and stumps.]
[Music: Sparse strings; a downward piano figure]
[Sound: The drip of water, the creak of broken boards, distant sobbing]

Narration:
The tally is slow and merciless. Two small fisheries are lost: boats splintered, nursery frames gone, livelihoods swept into the inlet's churn. Families pull up with boxes of heirlooms and rented vans, faces hollow as they close doors. You hold photographs in your notebook — Ilias's camera captured the moment the breach widened, Etta took pictures of the ruined playhouse. The images are terrible because they are true.

[Visual: Photograph overlays — a child's toy amid kelp, a torn net, the playhouse half-submerged.]
[Music: Low, aching cello]

Narration:
You are not immune to counting. You count the mistakes like ledger marks: the anchoring rods you didn't buy, the mitigation you deferred for outreach, the schedule you shortened to publish sooner. You run your fingers over pencil scratches in your notebook as if you could smooth them out. The ledger sits heavy against your ribs like a stone.

[Scene: Harborfront | Late Morning]
[Visual: The harborfront is quieter; market stalls stand empty where families left. Boats rest crooked in mud. Salt crusts everything, and the sky is thin and cold.]
[Sound: The slow scrape of hull against mud, a single gull's harsh cry]
[Music: A minor chord held for a long time; no resolution]

Narration:
Ilias is quiet for days. He walks the inlet's edge with his camera but his shoulders are smaller now, as if the work has siphoned something from him. One morning he sits beside you on an overturned crate near the waterline and opens his waterproof notebook.

Ilias Navarro: (soft, careful) "There's a fellowship — they'll fund a longitudinal study. They want someone on the ground who knows what we did and where it failed."

Maya Kestrel: (a small laugh, brittle) "Isn't that always the offer? Come document our ruin and turn it into a paper."

Ilias Navarro: (wincing) "No. I mean— it's ugly. It would mean leaving for a while. I can quantify the variables; I can try and make sure this doesn't repeat elsewhere."

Maya Kestrel: (voice low) "You'll go away to count what we couldn't hold."

Ilias Navarro: (after a pause) "I don't know what staying would do right now. You're needed here, Maya. You keep the people anchored. This —" (he gestures to the inlet) "— can be more useful if someone takes the data outward."

Narration:
He says the practical things as if that will steady whatever has splintered. He says he will go quietly, not to abdicating his share of grief but to translate it into something that might prevent other towns from paying the same toll. You watch his mouth tighten and you hear the edges of the decision in every breath.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask him to delay the fellowship — insist he stays through the winter") -> Reaction: "Your hand finds his sleeve. You demand the small, stubborn mercy of him staying. He nods, grateful and torn, and the two of you plan a winter schedule at once—work, study, repair—like a bandage you can both apply." || Choice B ("Tell him to take it; you’ll keep the town steady"] -> Reaction: "You push the selfishness down and say the words that will hollow the days: 'Go.' He searches your face for a trap, finds only salt and resolution, and accepts with a small, sad smile; you feel a gap open like the seam in the berm."]

Narration:
Ilias chooses the fellowship. He packs his gear into an old duffel and leaves with the modesty of someone who has shouldered too much of an impossible ledger. He tells you he will write, that he will return if the work calls him. You fold his promises into your jacket and put your notebook over them — protective layers over a wound.

[Visual: Ilias at the ferry, half-turned, the harbor shrinking behind him]
[Sound: The ferry's engines; the rope's creak; the soft wave whisper]

Narration:
People leave. Some go to relatives inland; others move to towns with insurance-backed jobs and higher leveled piers. The market loses a vendor you used to see every week. The school bell seems to ring a little less often.

Etta comes and stands with you on the harborfront a week after the breach. Her hands are raw with mending nets; her face is maps of sun and sea and years.

Etta Muir: (plainly) "You did what you could, girl. You tried to keep it honest. People will remember that."

Maya Kestrel: (you, quiet) "They remember the lost things too. They remember the children who won't have the same docks."

Etta Muir: (a long look) "Loss tells stories as much as survival. Make sure the next ones that hear those stories don't think it's the end of everything. Teach them the repair. Teach them the ledger's mistakes."

Narration:
Her words are a kind of benediction: not absolution, but instruction. You look at the coral pendant against your sternum and press your fingers to the carved grooves. The salt tastes suddenly bitter, sharp as a reprimand.

[Visual: Close-up — Your thumb tracing the coral's carved pattern; a single bead of saltwater on the cord]
[Music: Sparse piano, a slow fall to silence]
[Sound: The harbor's low, indifferent breathing]

Narration:
There is a strange honesty in endings. The rooftop gardens still hold breaths of green. Volunteers return to nail new supports; the town rebinds itself in parts. But families have gone. Two fisheries are gone. You carry both lists inside you now — the things that were saved and the things you miscounted.

[Scene: Harborfront | Dusk]
[Visual: The harborfront at dusk; lamps blink on with a hesitant glow. Boats are moored lower in the mud; some slips are empty. The town moves like someone who has learned a bruise.]
[Music: A single, sustaining cello note; wind across the water]

Narration:
You stand with your fingers on the coral pendant and let the harbor sound run up your arms. Your ledger is different now. It has new margins for regret. You can catalog every choice that led here, but cataloging does not stitch bones.

Maya Kestrel: (softly, to yourself) "We rose. We tried. We failed where it mattered."

Narration:
The rise was real; the fall is absolute. You are left to live inside both truths.

[Visual: The town in silhouette; lights reflected in water like slow, careful stars]
[Music: Fade into a lingering, unresolved minor chord]
[Sound: The sea, steady and old]

Narration:
You fold your notebook closed and tuck it into your jacket. You let the pendant warm against your palm, then slide it back into its place over your heart. You breathe in tar, kelp, and rain, and the taste of salt is no longer only memory. It is a ledger all its own.

[Visual: Fade to Black]
[Music: Fade Out]

[ENDING]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}