[Scene: Town Hall | Evening]
[Visual: The town hall's long wooden table under sodium lamps; damp coats hang on pegs, breath fogs in the air]
[Music: Low, hollow strings; a distant rhythm like surf against a groaning pier]
[Sound: Murmured conversations, a tinny projector click; gulls calling faintly beyond the shuttered windows]

You step into the room and the smell hits you — a dense, honest salt-and-fish tang braided with wet wool and the metallic tang of the projector. It settles in your chest the way memory does: unwanted, necessary. The crowd is a loose rope of faces you know by habit — people who line the harbor at dawn, who hand you lures and scold you for trimming the nets. Tonight those faces are brittle with expectation.

Mayor Ansel sits at the head of the table, his tweed darkened by rain. He folds his hands like a man trying to hold a storm in the shape of civility.

Mayor Ansel: "Thank you all for coming. We'll begin. Ms. Kestrel, Ms. Muir—" (he glances at the assembled, voice tight) "—and representatives from Skyhub."

The room shifts. Phones lift like small ships on a grey sea. You press your notebook to your ribs the way you did on the ferry, as if the paper could keep the ledger of loss from shifting beneath you.

[Visual: Door opens; a gust of wet air. Seren enters, hair wind-swept and precise; her solar pin blinks like a small, patient lighthouse]
[Sound: The murmurs still; a chair scrapes as she takes the podium]

Seren: (calm, polished) "Good evening. I'm grateful for your time. I know you have stakeholders here who love this town. What I propose is decisive: an engineered sea wall, managed relocation incentives for the most at-risk houses, and corporate-backed engineered wetlands to buffer storm surge. It's comprehensive and fundable."

She taps the tablet. A slide washes the wall in stark diagrams—concrete arcs, color-coded zones, estimated timelines and a bar of projected funding that climbs like an escalator.

Seren: "The timeline is accelerated. We can begin placement this winter. With proper procurement, loss of life risk drops measurably."

The room inhales. Her voice is smooth enough to polish the gravity of the words into something easier to swallow.

You watch the faces. Some are open with need — a young couple whose storefront floods every spring; a dockhand with callused hands; a woman with a photo of a child tucked into her coat. Others clamp shut with distrust.

Etta rises before any of you can, the old shawl around her shoulders like a sail. She slaps a faded net onto the table as if it were evidence and not a relic.

Etta Muir: (voice low, then rising) "You talk of walls and 'managed' what you call it. My father used to say you don't build over a memory; you listen to it. Kelp beds were our children. We bury them—what are we left with? Monoliths of someone else's coast."

She drags a wrinkled photograph across the table. The image is grainy: people laughing on a dock, a boy balancing on a piling. The net trembles under her palm.

A man near the back starts, "But the floods—"

Etta: (cuts him off) "Floods took my sister. I know what needs respect, and it's not your spreadsheets."

Her voice is not merely fury; it's braided with a kind of mythic grievance that makes the room colder. You can feel the ledger tilt, even as you remind yourself the town needs both memory and shelter.

Rafi angles his camera, hunger in his hands. He leans forward, voice quick and loud enough to be heard on the record.

Rafi: "Seren's timeline is newsworthy. People want concrete action. But people also want their homes. How do you reconcile that publicly, Seren?"

Seren: (measured, almost smiling) "Transparency. Staged deployment. Community relocation programs will include vocational retraining and compensation. This is not abandonment; it's reallocation of resources."

Dr. Hana Sato clears her throat. Her presence changes temperature — clinical, cool, steady. She taps a slide showing kelp canopy growth curves that slope gently across years.

Dr. Hana: "Restoration biology is not a switch. Kelp and eelgrass recover on multi-year timelines. If we neglect living systems in favor of engineered buffers alone, we may stabilize property but lose long-term productivity."

Two hands go up — questions, clarifications. The room fragments into pitched conversations, each a wave at odds with others. You listen for the seams.

You run your thumb over the chipped coral pendant at your throat without thinking. You have designs in your head — patches of eelgrass, volunteers on ropes planting shoots, rooftop gardens that double as stormwater systems, labor-credit schemes so work becomes currency in itself. You have charts in your notebook that smell faintly of salt and ink. You can see the shape of a distributed plan as clearly as the salt crust on the sill, but you know the other shape of the world too — the kind the tablet displays.

Ilias leans in near you, eyes crinkling at the corners as if to offer the small, private signal of steadiness. He places a damp print of a transect beside your elbow — a quiet affirmation, not a solution. When he speaks his voice is low.

Ilias: (soft) "Maya, your restoration pilots could be scaled if we find bridging funds. Private grants, cooperative bonds—"

He doesn't finish the plan aloud in the room; he doesn't have to. His eyes say what his voice leaves unsaid: that the science is real, that he believes in the living things more than the line items.

You stand then, palms slightly damp against your notebook. Your voice is steadier than you feel.

Maya: "The sea is not a problem that surrenders to one design. A mix — living shorelines, rooftop retention, labor credits to make repair and planting a viable income — can both protect and sustain us. We can stage it. We can scale it with the town's labor and knowledge."

Seren watches you as one appraises a specimen. Her jaw is a measured line.

Seren: (cool) "Scaling community projects requires capital and coordination. Time is not on our side. Your plan is worthy, but diffuse. How do you ensure it holds up when a storm larger than we've planned hits?"

Maya: (pressing) "We combine fail-safes. Mosaic barriers to reduce wave energy. Legal covenants to preserve riparian zones. Labor credits backed by municipal guarantees while we build community cooperatives. This isn't opposed to engineering — it's a different engineering."

Mayor Ansel folds his hands again, eyes darting between you and the images of concrete. He has to manage not only the science but the political calculus of jobs and promises made by outside hands.

Mayor Ansel: "People need bread on the table, Ms. Kestrel. If a wall brings contracts, it brings payroll. The question isn't whether your plan is noble — it's whether it keeps people through the winter."

Your throat tightens. You remember winters with empty harbors and faces you couldn't reach. That memory is the spike beneath every policy you propose. You do not trust facile safety; you do not trust the kind of quick promises that come wrapped in corporate sheen. But you cannot call for purity when livelihoods are a ledger column in town people's eyes.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Interrupt Seren now") -> Reaction: "You take a breath and raise your hand—your interruption is sharp, the room tightens, Seren's eyes flick to you with a small lift of a brow. She allows the interruption, and for a second the room seems held between two possible futures." || Choice B ("Wait and prepare a rebuttal") -> Reaction: "You keep your hand down, fingers finding the edge of your notebook. Waiting gives your words room to land when they come; you can craft the bridge between empathy and logistics." || Choice C ("Appeal to the crowd instead") -> Reaction: "You lean forward and address the room, your voice widening to include everyone: not a direct challenge to Seren, but a call to the commons. People respond with nods and a few raised hands, the energy changing into something more collective."]

The room responds differently depending on the choice — either way, something spends itself. The debate grows teeth.

Etta stands again, voice splintering into something both personal and ancestral.

Etta: "You call it reallocation. When my nets are taken, it's our recipes and songs they take. Courts and covenants mean nothing if the living that fed us is gone. Will your walls teach our grandchildren how to fish?"

Seren: (quietly) "I never said heritage is unimportant. But we must triage. Save lives, secure the economy, then rebuild what we can."

Etta: (bitter laugh) "You speak of 'rebuild' like land you can buy new. You cannot rebuild a childhood."

Rafi leans in, voice now a sharpening edge aimed at a headline.

Rafi: "Mayor Reed — we can frame this as decisive action, or as displacement in a suit. Which do you want the paper to say?"

Mayor Ansel: (wearily) "We want a way forward that people can accept. We need proposals; we need them tomorrow."

Dr. Hana: (soft, precise) "If I may. Engineered wetlands can provide buffers in years, but the establishment of functioning kelp canopies is on the order of multiple seasons, depending on stressors. If we pair wetland engineering with immediate living shore pilots, we can buy ecological time."

Seren looks at Dr. Hana with an expression that is both appraisal and a glint of alliance.

Seren: "Then we do both. We commit to engineered protection now, with parallel investment into living systems. We need commitments from the town for land-use changes and a quick vote on procurement."

Murmurs ripple. Some see the compromise as salvation; others, betrayal. You can feel the seam straining. For a moment, Ilias squeezes your shoulder, a private pressure that steadies you more than any motion from the table.

Ilias: (to you, low) "If we can get them to fund pilots, we can scale. The models work on paper. We just need time and buy-in."

Maya: "And the buy-in starts here. We must promise training, legal protections, and a people's oversight committee so projects don't get handed away to outside firms."

The room's talk becomes a shoal of overlapping voices; the sodium light feels harder now, thin as a coin, reflecting off damp brows and the shine of skyhub tablets. The meeting fragments before any consensus can be formed. It is decision by attrition — a slow wearing of the possible into the practical.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Speak up for a people's oversight committee") -> Reaction: "You call for oversight and your voice is met with both applause and a few sharp 'hums.' Mayor Ansel makes a small, tired nod, but Seren's jaw tightens; the idea sets a line between them and the delegation." || Choice B ("Push harder for immediate pilot funding") -> Reaction: "You push the pilot funding argument and Ilias echoes you. Projected timelines are pulled back out of someone's laptop; the room shifts toward feasibility, but the air tastes of compromise — not all wins, and some losses already penciled in." || Choice C ("Concede floor to Seren and push for review language") -> Reaction: "You choose restraint, asking only that any procurement include review clauses and community employment guarantees. It quiets the room, but the silence is a brittle peace." ]

Whatever you chose or withheld, the meeting ends as twilight thickens outside the shutters. Conversations smear into one another in the crowded hallway; hands clasp and release like nets. No resolution is reached. The delegation exchanges polished smiles that don't reach their eyes. Etta folds her net and leaves more slowly than usual; Rafi snaps a few final photos with a face that's unreadable.

Mayor Ansel: (calling) "We'll reconvene Friday with preliminary frameworks. Thank you. We'll need everyone's input."

The sound of the room recedes as people file out. Your chest feels hollow and full at once, a tide pulling at a newly exposed shoal. You have spoken, you have held your ground, and still the town's seam seems to fray under your fingers.

[Visual: Boardwalk outside | Night]
[Sound: Fog horn in the distance; the roll of distant water against pilings]
[Music: A single, mournful cello that unfurls slowly]

You walk the boardwalk alone, the sodium lamps punctured by fog until they are halos swallowed in gray. Your boots slap on wet wood. The sea smells of iron and cold hope. In your pocket your notebook is damp from your own breath. Each step is a ledger entry you cannot yet reconcile.

Ilias catches up with you near the railing. He pauses, looking out over the water as if the horizon holds an answer.

Ilias: (softly) "You're quieter than you looked in there. Are you alright?"

Maya: (honest) "We spoke, we sketched, we asked for guarantees. But talk can be a kind of tide too — it can pull things away before you can anchor them."

Ilias: (searching) "We can make anchors. We have the people. We have science. We need time and leverage."

You let the mist take his words. The fog seems to wash your outlines softer, make both of you less certain. Loneliness creeps in — not the sharp loneliness of being alone, but the hollowed kind that comes from being the town's conscience.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Invite Ilias to help draft the oversight language tonight") -> Reaction: "You ask him to sit with you in the lab tomorrow and hammer out the guarantees. He smiles, small and tired, and agrees — an anchoring promise in the mist." || Choice B ("Tell Ilias to rest and let you shoulder the first draft") -> Reaction: "You tell him you'll handle it for now. He nods, disappointment flickering briefly across his face before he masks it with a professional calm." || Choice C ("Walk away into the fog alone") -> Reaction: "You let him stand there and turn away into the fog. The isolation is immediate and sharp; you hear the hollow of your own footsteps like a tally." ]

The boardwalk swallows the choice and keeps moving. Your guilt pulses — a rhythmic reminder of the sibling you lost and the people who trust you to keep them safe. The town is a fragile seam, and you feel the strain of its stitches under your fingers. The options feel less like paths and more like undertows.

You think of the sea, how it keeps erasing and revealing the same shore, each tide demanding a different kind of humility. Tonight you have a ledger in your hand and a pile of competing ledgers on the table. You have the loyalty of the harbor, the fury of its elders, the polished solutions of those with coffers, and the slow patience of the living shorelines.

As fog thickens, the sodium lamps become mere halos. Somewhere a gull calls, thin as a question. The meeting is over but nothing is decided. The town waits, exhausting and expectant.

[Page-Turn moment: You rest your palms on the cold railing and imagine the next move — legal language, binding guarantees, labor credits stamped and circulated, a pilot site that must be seeded before winter. Or a contract signed in a glass office that will move people and money faster than you can plant a single shoot of kelp. The harbor breathes, indifferent and enormous. You realize the next choice won't come in a single meeting; it will be a series of small compromises, of who you trust and what you protect. The fog seems to whisper that every path will cost something you love. You look down at your notebook one last time; the pages are a map of hopes and debts. The decision point waits, not as a clean fork but as the undertow under every current.]

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}