[Scene: Mangrove Patch | Dusk]
[Visual: Long shadows drape across tangled roots; the last light slides off wet metal on an old hull half-buried in silt]
[Sound: Close, constant hush of tide through roots, a distant gull; the soft, rhythmic click of Etta's needles]
[Music: Sparse piano, low strings — a slow, elegiac descending line]

You stand ankle-deep in mud that smells of iron and brine, the scent of hearth and harbor braided into the air. The mangroves close around you like a fragile, breathing map — a place that has held memory for longer than contracts or board votes. Your palms are streaked with silt and salt; your notebook is heavy in the pocket of your jacket, its pages pressed by deadlines and signatures that once felt like solutions.

Etta is there, stooped on a reclaimed crate, knitting by lamp-light. Her hands move with a persistence that looks like prayer. The shawl over her shoulders is damp at the edges, the wool smelling faintly of fish oil and tea. She doesn't look up at first; when she does, her eyes read like tide charts — patient, precise, and not surprised by loss.

Etta Muir: "You always count the edges, don't you, child? First the harbor, now the map. What does the ledger say tonight?" (She tucks a wayward strand of yarn, voice sand-rough and practiced.)

You want to answer with figures — hectares saved, households remaining, the statistical confidence that made funders comfortable — but numbers are poor speech under a sky that remembers faces. Instead you breathe and let each fact fall into the mud at your boots.

Narration:
You think of the emergency eelgrass frames hammered into the shallows last spring, of the nights you and Ilias waded while the town slept and pressed seedlings into the mud. You remember Seren's handshake under harsh lights and the clauses in the contract that felt like both lifeline and leash. You remember Rafi's early headline — "Patchwork Triumph" — and the weight of how quickly the press will flip "triumph" into "tragic inevitability" if it better suits the arc.

Rafi approaches with his camera slung low, the strap still damp from a rain that began and stopped on a rumor. He shows you the latest: a spread in the regional paper, a column we hoped would hold the story steady but now edged with a sidebar about investor interest in scalable models. The photograph is of a child on a doorstep, the house half-packed, a cardboard sign folded in the window.

Rafi: "They ran Etta's face in the lead. Then they ran the prices. The timeline for 'relocation incentives' accelerated. Mayor's office says it's voluntary, but people are getting letters."

You reach for the paper; the print is warm under your fingers — ink and the bruised energy of public argument. Your chest tightens, that familiar ache like a rope tightening around a name you can't say.

Ilias appears at your shoulder, boots leaving careful prints in the mud. He brings the smell of wet canvas and kelp; his hands are stained with green growth and salt. His ocean-blue eyes find yours with a tenderness that feels, for a moment, both terrible and miraculous.

Ilias Navarro: "We saved the nursery beds near the boardwalk. The frames held through the storm last month. Hana says recruitment rates are above expectations for juvenile cod in the sanctuaries." (He exhales, a smile that doesn't settle.) "We did exactly what you sketched."

You could lean into that — into the tangible, into the small victories that mean bodies of work and lives — and you want to. You lean your forehead to his for a heartbeat, a quiet contract between two people who have spent months trading small mercies.

Narration:
The intimacy of those afternoons has a warmth that makes the cold facts sharper. When hands learn the same muscle memory — how to burrow a plug, how to stitch a net, how to read tide against weather — something else grows with the eelgrass. You and Ilias traded data runs for whispered plans; you traded notebooks for his tide-watch bracelet when you slept badly. It felt like a map being rewritten in ink you could trust.

Ilias: "There are kids out there who will eat this winter because of what we did. Don't let the rest drown that memory." (He squeezes your hand, as if anchoring both of you.)

You want to promise him the moon in a language the sea understands. Instead, the sound of a delivery truck grinding in the distance catches your ear: an engineered signpost arrives — a new 'Community Transition Hub' banner being set up two streets over. A different kind of hand is at work elsewhere, one measured in concrete pours and clauses.

[Scene: Saltgarden Research Lab | Night]
[Visual: Green pools under lamps, condensation on glass; frames of eelgrass pulsing in their baths]
[Sound: The hum of refrigeration and low conversation; rain ticking the lab's steel roof]
[Music: A thin, repetitive motif on violin — insistently hopeful, then bending toward minor]

Dr. Hana Sato stands at a table crowded with sample vials and a laptop, the glow of the screen painting her face clinical and exhausted. She looks up as you and Ilias enter, her voice soft with the kind of professional grief reserved for people who watch systems fail in slow motion.

Dr. Hana Sato: "The pilot data is sound. Recruitment, survival curves, nutrient cycling — the biology is doing what we hoped. The problem is the legal side: our governance clause gives the cooperative oversight of pilot zones, but not veto over external development outside those coordinates." (She taps a tablet; the map flares to life.) "Investors are pushing for contiguous, scalable footprints. They're proposing consolidation — buyouts that would 'optimize' restoration for return on capital."

You read the map like a ledger of bones: sanctuary pockets glowing like constellations — bright, finite. Beyond them, the grid that investors love: straight lines, scalable, efficient. Your mouth tastes like the salt of all the unspoken compromises.

Narration:
Hana's fingers hover over a data point and she doesn't need to say the rest. You have spent months negotiating the clause that let funders in with a seat at the oversight table. It was a rough bargain: money and equipment in trade for governance language designed to protect culture. It bought you frames, labs, and outreach. It also bought a mechanism investors could exploit when their models demanded more land.

Dr. Hana Sato: "We can optimize protocol and document chain-of-custody for community-led transplants. But if buyouts continue, the social scaffolding that supplies labor and local knowledge will erode. Data can't plant roots where people aren't left to tend them."

You want to tell her a plan that undoes the structural incentives, a plan that stitches law to lived practice. But you know what happened the last time you tried to fit a human habit into a legal loophole: the language looks durable until pressure finds the seam.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Trace the wording of the clause with Hana right now") -> Reaction: "You crouch beside Hana, finger tracing the dense legal text on her tablet. The words blur and sharpen — 'governance' becomes a promise you check again, a ritual you perform to feel less at sea." || Choice B ("Step outside and breathe with Ilias") -> Reaction: "You step out into the night, letting the lab's humid light fall away. Ilias waits under the awning; for a moment, you let your shoulders lower and simply count the breaths between you."]

Dr. Hana Sato: "Whatever we do, we document everything. Stories matter in the long run — Rafi's reporting helped get us this far. But documents and the public don't always beat markets. We have to be careful with narrative control."

Rafi's voice comes over the lab comm—stilted, urgent. He has a file of interviews, some triumph pieces, some elegies. He is chasing a pivot in the town's narrative like someone trying to stitch a flag onto a moving ship.

Rafi: "There's a mother on the Harborfront with three kids. She cried when the agent offered 'relocation incentives' — not because she mistrusts stability, but because the terms would price out anyone who fished the old ledges. If we don't get narrative control, we'll be telling a story of winners and losers before we can settle the ledger."

Dr. Hana Sato: "Then we tie metadata to storytelling. Publish the cohort studies, the families' data — with consent. Make the human cost visible in the same space investors tout efficiency."

Narration:
You think of the nights you and Ilias spent on the boardwalk, hand-in-hand under sodium lamps, talking about what to save and what to concede. Compromise felt like an honest currency then, not a chain. Now compromise looks like a map with clean cuts, and you wonder which neighborhoods will remain islands.

[Scene: Harborfront | Grey Morning]
[Visual: Empty stalls, a drifting market umbrella collapsed like a blown sail; a cardboard sign in a window: "For Buyout" scrawled in hasty ink]
[Sound: The slap of a single loose banner; a distant engine; a child laughing somewhere that sounds like an ache]
[Music: Low brass; a solitary cello note]

You walk the harbor with Ilias and Rafi in the thin light that follows a rain. Here the town's contours reveal themselves in absence — shuttered doors with padlocks, one or two boats hauled higher than usual, a fishmonger sweeping a smaller patch of dock than yesterday.

Etta's shop sits two alleys over, a warm, cramped refuge smelling of brine and dried kelp. Inside, she is still knitting; the pace slowed, but ritual persists. A basket of nets leans against the door like a monument. She doesn't speak immediately; instead she slides a small net across the counter — it's too small to be practical, more of a comfort object, a child's toy of a fisher's life.

Etta Muir: "They called me stubborn, you know. Said old ways were nostalgia, not policy. I told them: when the sea eats your map, you learn its lines by hand. You keep knitting, you keep naming." (She taps the net with the flat of her thumb.)

You fold the net into your palm and feel the tiny weight of a thing that refuses to be efficient. It is a remnant of what the cooperative protected — a sanctified smallness within a system that now prizes scale.

Rafi: "The headlines are shifting. They want a tidy narrative. But there's grief in a slow leaving. People won't always say goodbye on camera."

Ilias: "Some of them will go for work, not because they want to, but because staying is debt. We can't stop every buying agent. We can make it harder for money to sweep through without asking who will pay the social care to keep the sanctuary alive."

You can hear the municipal rounds in the distance: trucks setting up temporary assistance booths, good intentions voiced under fluorescent light. But your ears can also pick out the small departures: a suitcase dragged down a wet lane, a child's towel slung over a weak shoulder, a buddy system of neighbors who trade shift work to keep claims moving.

Seren's presence arrives in the form of a message first — a brief, measured note through channels you once thought adversarial then necessary: an offer to meet, to discuss 'boundary clarifications and long-term transition planning.' There is an economy to her words that look like care and calculation stitched together.

Narration:
You had bargained with her in a different light — one of clauses that etched out sanctuaries. Those sanctuaries did their work. But they were islands. The shore between them became affordable and, consequently, attractive. Investors noticed the predictive models and came with rolling offers. The cooperative gave a chorus to a town; it did not hand you the ability to stop capital's appetite.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Seren to extend sanctuary protections to adjoining blocks") -> Reaction: "You send the message with your chest tight. It feels like asking an ocean to hold still. Seren replies in formal tones — 'I'll consider legislative paths.' The wording is careful; you feel the answer as a tide, not a promise." || Choice B ("Call a public press meeting with Rafi to highlight forced relocations") -> Reaction: "You call Rafi and he answers, voice bright with the possibility. He can stage the meeting, but you can hear the friction in his ask: 'Are you ready for the fallout?' — as if courage is something you can sign up for on paper." ]

Ilias: "Whatever you choose, I'll stand with you." (His voice is earnest, but there's a tremble you don't let yourself swallow — the fear that the things you defend might push the people you love away.)

You want to say yes. You want to anchor everything — the frames, the sanctuaries, the legal language — into a final plan. Instead, you hear your own voice ask the question you have avoided: at what cost is victory worth having?

[Scene: Mangrove Patch | Dusk — Return]
[Visual: The sky bruising toward night; lanterns swung and hidden among trunks; a tide line shining like a cut]
[Sound: The water's breath slows; your boots in mud; the murmured distant voices folding into rooks of wind]
[Music: Minor chords, strings with a slow decay — hopeful intervals crushed under gravity]

You return to the place you count things — the map folded into roots and memory — and lay out what remains in your mind like coins on a table. Names you saved by convincing donors to fund localized livelihoods. Names you couldn't — households who accepted buyouts they couldn't refuse. The sanctuary pockets flicker in your mind like lamp-posts; the rest is a smeared coastline.

Narration:
Love, you think, is not immune to geography. You have held hands with Ilias in boats between frames. You have shared coffee with him over data exports at midnight. You have folded your plans into his optimism. The closeness has been a harbor for both of you; yet the same currents that push investment through town also pull at people, toward new work, toward cities that promise less flood risk and more income. You wonder if the map of your life will be drawn ever after in the same lines.

Etta's knitting basket is smaller tonight. Rafi's headlines have begun to pair celebration with elegy in the same article. Hana has started using phrases that used to be hypothetical in her reports. Seren's face, in your memory, is a clean plane of policy: decisive, effective, and isolated in the way of people used to getting things done.

You kneel and press a fist into the mud. The cold bites the tenderness from the inside. The ledger in your head adds and subtracts with equal cruelty. You count what was saved: a handful of fisheries that will survive the next season, heritage sites that still host festivals, the nursery beds that now recruit juveniles. You count what was sacrificed: neighbor's shops closed, a street's laughter hollowed, families that moved and cannot be coaxed back by data.

Ilias: "We made something real." (He moves closer, voice low.) "We did the work other people called impossible."

You let his words sit. They are true. And yet they do not hold everything. They do not replace the hollow in the dock where a child's swing now spins in a yard with no one to push.

Narration:
At the edge of the mangrove, tied to a root is a laminated notice — small, official, the kind that severs evening conversations. It is a list of sanctioned buyout perimeters and a schedule of eminent domain hearings. Your name is not on it. Names of neighbors are. The print is a law that feels like a blade.

You slide a thumb along the margin, feeling the crispness, the finality. The paper rustles like an answer. You have an option, you know. There are everything-choices lined up by obligation and by heart — to fight in the courts until the law bleeds hope; to take what remains and protect it with careful hands; to make a call that would empty a sanctuary for safety; to stand and let time and markets carve the coastline while you anchor what you can.

Narration:
You imagine a future stitched of different shapes: a cooperative that becomes a template; empty streets that read like pages torn out of a community history; a town reordered into zones — preserved and polished, abandoned and repurposed. You imagine the cost in voices you love, in rituals lost and in the slow erasure of small skills that no algorithm values.

Ilias: "Whatever you decide, I—" (He stops, because the rest is a promise he can't make for you without knowing who you will be after.) "—I'll be by the frames. If you need me."

Narration:
The sky above the roots darkens; the lab-light distant to the east burns like a promise and a threat both. Rafi's latest message vibrates in your pocket: a draft headline, a list of witnesses willing to testify in public, a plea for you to step forward. Hana's last text is a table of modeled outcomes under multiple governance scenarios. Etta hums an old sea-song and knots another stitch.

You can see the map you patched. You can see its seams. You can see the people who followed the stitches and the ones who left.

You inhale — sea-salt, diesel, wool — and everything tightens into the shape of a single, impossible decision.

Narration:
You close your eyes for a breath and open them on the water-line, on the lamp beside Etta, on Ilias's presence, on Rafi's urgency, on Hana's data, on Seren's message hovering unread. The ledger is not neat. The coastline is not returning.

You put your hand to the laminated notice and feel the ridged edge of obligation. The choices are heavy and not wholly yours and entirely yours.

[Scene: Dusk thickens into night; the wind carries the distant sound of a truck setting up a panel outside the Community Hall]
[Music: A single, sustained minor chord with a slow fade]

Narration:
You stand at the margin where what you saved meets what was surrendered. The town breathes around you, altered and alive and less the same. Love holds — not untouched, not untested, but present, fragile as a seedling in a windbreak. You count, once more, the ledger of names and places and feel both gratitude and a grief that is wide as the bay.

You lift the laminated notice, the phone in your hand buzzing with a new message, and feel the decision fold up inside your ribs like a tide ready to turn.

[REQUIRED DECISION OUTCOMES]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": null,
  "default_next_chapter": null
}