[Scene: Maris Institute — Coastal Research Lab | Late Morning]
[Visual: Pan across condensation-flecked windows showing a choppy gray sea; whiteboards crowded with maps and red-string annotations]
[Sound: Distant gulls, low hum of lab fans, occasional clack of a keyboard]
[Music: Low, taut strings — undercurrent of pressure]

You push open the lab door and the air changes: cooler, salt-tinged, and threaded with the bitter warmth of coffee. Your notebook, still damp at the corners, rubs against the brass compass at your throat. The boardroom light bleeds across a stack of tide gauge readouts; someone has taped a photograph of a flooded alley where the market used to be. Memory is stapled to data here, and it leans into you as you step closer.

Professor Anika Bhat stands with her back to a whiteboard, silver bun bobbing as she moves the marker like a metronome. Her lab coat smells of sea salt and over-brewed coffee. She chews her words the way she chews through assumptions — kindly, precisely.

Professor Anika: "Margins, Mara. You tightened the confidence intervals, but your exposure envelope assumes uniform sea-level acceleration. Real systems don't give you that courtesy. Show me the alternate run."

You feel your chest tighten — always that thin cord of guilt pulling behind the diaphragm — and you flip the corner of your damp page to a second sketch. Your hands are steady enough, but your eyes sting from staring at curves until they blur into obligations.

Mara Lin: "I ran a sensitivity test on the runoff coefficients. I—" (you swallow) "—I didn't want to widen the envelope without clear community inputs. It felt like making the problem bigger than we could handle."

Professor Anika: "Inputs matter. Your job is to make it big enough to be honest, then find what parts the community can carry. You can't hedge every hard truth in hope it'll vanish." (she taps the whiteboard) "If you understate exposure, decisions are made that look reasonable on paper and murderous on the ground."

You want to argue, to point out the list of alleyways Mrs. Ebbett gave you, the fraying vendor stalls, Samir's friend who sleeps with a lifejacket under his mattress. Instead you breathe out and let the facts do the work — the tide gauges, the probability envelopes, the ragged confidence bands that start small and fan wide like a warning flare.

Mara Lin: "Okay. Show me the run you want me to walk into City Hall with."

Professor Anika: (softening) "The wider one. And bring the lived hazards — the culvert that clogs every spring, the block that wants to be a tidal marsh but has been paved over. You are the bridge, Mara. Not to baulk but to bear."

There is comfort in the clarity of that criticism; it sharpens rather than breaks you. Still, the guilt is an animal at the edge of your vision. It asks: are you honest because you owe them answers, or because you cannot forgive yourself for the things you could not stop?

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Take the stale coffee Anika offers") -> Reaction: "You take the paper cup. The coffee is hot and a little bitter. It steadies your hands; you let the warmth anchor a thought: honesty will make enemies, but lies will cost lives." || Choice B ("Decline and smooth your damp notes instead") -> Reaction: "You pass on the cup. Your fingers smooth the page until the margins flatten. You feel more in control for a heartbeat — control that may be illusion." ]

Professor Anika watches you with an expression that's almost maternal and mostly intolerant of excuses.

Professor Anika: "City Hall called ten minutes ago. They triggered an urgent public hearing — flood-models, engagement, the usual pageantry. They want a community pilot presented as evidence of 'grassroots buy-in.'"

The line under 'grassroots buy-in' tastes like a threat. You think of Samir's hands as he tied that patchwork baffle last week, of the woman who named the three alleys by rote, as if reciting a litany. Your fingers find the compass pendant beneath your collar and press, a small, private ritual.

Mara Lin: "I'll go," you say. "I'll take the wide run, the hazards. I'll—"

Professor Anika: (interrupting, quietly) "Don't present hope as a deliverable, Mara. Present trade-offs."

Her words hang in the air like static. You nod. You never wanted to be the one to read the ledger of choices, but neither could you let the ledger be written without all the signatures.

[Visual: Cut to hallway; a city alert chime vibrates through the building]
[Sound: Sharp municipal alert tone; footsteps quickening]
[Music: Low strings swell]

[Scene: City Hall — Planning Atrium | Midday]
[Visual: Glass-and-marble atrium flooded with harsh light; neon flood-model displays pulsing cyan and magenta; chrome railings blink with reflected colors]
[Sound: Murmur of an assembled crowd, distant microphone feedback, shoes on polished marble]
[Smell: Polished stone, cold air, a faint undernote of diesel from the site trucks outside]
[Music: A brittle piano line — anxious, formal]

You step into an atrium that seems designed to flatten people. Sound swallows nuance here and turns things into talking points. The flood-model displays flicker: animated meshes of the bay swallowing neighborhoods in slow, cinematic sweeps. People watch the screens like they expect a miracle to press 'undo'.

Elias arrives with the procedural gravity of someone who grew up learning to trust plans that curve in on themselves until they fit. He moves through the crowd with an ease that annoys you — crisp blazer, municipal ID like a talisman. When he sees you, his hazel eyes lift. There is a steadiness there, a habit of making institutional spaces feel like home.

Elias Kade: (approaching) "Mara. You're here early. The models are running both scenarios. I—" (he glances at your notebooks) "—I wanted to talk before you present."

You sense the omission in his sentence: the one where he would tell you which side of the line he tends to fall on. You both know the politics: Elias' world builds seas into equations and pushes steel into place; Nova’s world writes the same sea as grief and possibility.

Mara Lin: "Before? Or during?" (you tuck a damp page into your jacket pocket)

Elias Kade: (half-smile) "Before. There are ways to frame the pilot that make it politically survivable. You have leverage. Let me help you shape it so it becomes fundable."

You want to accept that offer — you want someone to help carry the weight — and you also want to shout that 'fundable' is not the same as 'right.' Your jaw tightens.

Mara Lin: "Funding shouldn't be the same as a moral rubric, Elias."

Elias Kade: (surrendering some grin) "No. But it's the language the mayor speaks. If you want traction, you need that translation. Trust me — translation doesn't have to be betrayal."

There is real warmth in his tone; a practiced calm that tries to bridge the practical and the humane. For a sliver of a second you imagine compromise as collaboration, not capitulation.

Across the atrium, a different current moves: Nova Duarte threads through a cluster of protestors with rail-thin intensity. Her vest is paint-splattered, her megaphone slung over her shoulder like a loaded statement. She is an interruption carved into protocol.

Nova Duarte: (to you as she passes, voice low but sharp) "Don't let them turn our evacuation plans into PR, Mara. People are not props for a seawall ribbon-cutting."

Her eyes — steel-gray and unbearably direct — land on you for a beat that contains years. Her look is complex: accusation and plea braided together. You do not know everything that stands between you and her, and nor should you assume you do; her face registers a demand that is both personal and collective.

Mara Lin: "I'm not there to prettify anything, Nova. I want the data to reflect what you told me."

Nova Duarte: "Then make sure they hear the cost of 'business as usual.'"

You can feel the atrium narrowing into a tight corridor of competing nouns: cost, fundable, pilot, buy-in, lives. The public meeting begins with the sterile cadence of municipal procedure, and the microphone eats phrases, reduces them to talking points.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Scan the neon models one last time") -> Reaction: "You let your eyes trace the animated meshes. Seeing the curves widen into neighborhoods makes your stomach drop; it steels you into delivering everything, no softening." || Choice B ("Catch Elias' eye and give a small nod") -> Reaction: "You nod to Elias. He nods back with a measured look that says we'll try to make this survive the politics — and that is both comfort and pressure." ]

When the moderator looks to you, the room leans in with the peculiar hunger of people who attend public hearings to be reassured. You step up to the podium. The microphone grows large and honest in your hand.

Mara Lin: "Good afternoon. I'm Mara Lin, with the Maris Institute and I represent residents who live in the low-lying blocks north of the harbor."

You let the numbers come first — exposure curves, tide-gauge trends, a probabilistic envelope that fans wide and refuses to lie. Your voice is steady at first; you let the math do the blunt work. Then, when the room has had enough distance to digest numbers, you pull the photograph of the flooded alley into view.

Mara Lin: "This is not an abstraction for these people." (you place your finger on the photo) "This is their front steps. Mrs. Ebbett warned me last week about a culvert that clogs and turns a street into a river within an hour. Samir's block has only one elevated shed between their homes and the bay."

There is a hush that is not reverent but attentive; faces sharpen into curiosity and defense in a breath. Your words thread numbers and memory together until the models start to sound like stakes, not just projections. You sense Mayor Chen's attention — the posture of someone who weighs headlines and budgets.

Mayor Heloise Chen: (coolly) "Ms. Lin, we appreciate the context. However, the city requires a scaled plan. Engineering evaluation must proceed. The council will decide by the end of the quarter. We need a seawall proposal that addresses immediate failure modes."

Her tone is marble: polished, unyielding. The neon displays flicker in her eyes like scoreboard lights.

Mara Lin: "Immediate failure modes matter, Mayor Chen. But so does how a plan affects neighborhoods long term. A single seawall can redistribute harm."

Mayor Heloise Chen: "And without a seawall, we accept that damage will be greater. The deadline is non-negotiable. We cannot gamble the city's operations on pilot projects that delay interventions."

There it is: the hard line. You taste it as though it's metal. 'Non-negotiable' is an implosion of possibility; a statement that compresses compromises into shorter, sharper choices.

Nova steps forward, breath like wind over a cliff.

Nova Duarte: "A seawall without restoration is a bandage on a tumor. You can spend millions to hold back a sea you can't stop — or you can start retaking land for wetlands, where water can go without erasing our homes."

Mayor Heloise Chen: (flat) "We will consider all inputs. But the council will not be swayed by rhetoric over engineering risk."

Elias, who has stood quiet beside his municipal team, finally inserts himself with careful cadence.

Elias Kade: "There is an engineering plan that can be staged. It can incorporate community pilot measures as buffer zones and living shorelines where feasible. We can phase it so some neighborhoods see protective benefits earlier."

His voice is practiced compromise. You can hear the mechanism of negotiation working its way into language: staged, phased, incorporate. Words that mean 'we'll hold the line and sprinkle concessions' rather than 'we'll remake the system.'

Mara Lin: "Phasing is acceptable only if the phases do not consign neighborhoods to being trial sites for failure. I will bring you a pilot that demonstrates community-led resilience, but it must not be used as tokenization. It must be integrated into the city's risk framework, not boxed off as an experiment."

The room watches as if the two of you are balancing a scale. Nova looks at you with an unreadable expression; Elias inclines his head, a small, complicated sign of support. Mayor Chen checks a tablet and sets a lip that you have come to know as an institutional maw.

Mayor Heloise Chen: "Deadline remains the end of quarter. Prepare your materials. The council will convene a subcommittee next week. We need a seawall plan that demonstrates both efficacy and fiscal responsibility."

The words land like a wave: commanded, inevitable. You feel the lab's whiteboard margins compress into a single sentence. The city has declared its timetable. The clock has been set in marble.

Mara Lin: (to yourself, quietly) "Trade-offs, then. Not all of them chosen by me."

You step down from the podium. The room dissolves into fragmented conversations: reporters angling, activists recalibrating, municipal aides typing like frantic prayer. Your compass pendant is a thin, warm weight against your chest, an old instrument in a new kind of storm.

You think of the alleys and the photograph, of Anika's insistence that you make the problem big enough to be honest. You think of Elias' offer to translate and Nova's warning that translation can be erasure. An argument has been framed in public: seawall now, pilots later. Lives are in the parentheses.

A sense of falling opens beneath the city's polished floors. It's quieter than you expected — not the sound of failure, but the creak of a plan being set into motion that may not hold.

You want to make a choice that keeps everyone whole. You also know the rules: you can't stop the calendar, and you can't be the only one who bears the ledger.

There is a suspended moment as people file out and the neon models continue their inevitable eat of shorelines. You hold the compass and let the metal cool to your skin. For all the models, for all the voices, one fact remains: now there is a hard deadline. Now there is a seawall plan that will be written with or without your full consent.

You inhale the institutional air and let the weight of the deadline settle into your bones. It pushes, like tide, toward decisions you are not ready to make.

You step into the bright hallway and the world narrows to a single next act: preparation, argument, negotiation, and the possibility that some neighborhoods will be asked to give more than they have.

You are not finished speaking. The meeting is over, but the repercussions have just begun.

[Visual: Slow pull back from the atrium as voices fade; neon displays continue to blink]
[Music: Tension note lingers then cuts]

{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}
[LINEAR JUMP]