[Scene: The Saltworks | Midday → Evening]
[Visual: Morning fog thinning to a clean, brittle light through north-facing windows]
[Sound: Low hum of the misting rigs; a kettle clicking off in the corner; distant gulls]
[Music: Gentle, hopeful piano with a rising cello undercurrent]

You push the door open and the Saltworks smells like its name—salt, wet earth, and the sharp tang of kelp preserves cooling on a plate. Light spills across benches cluttered with trays of marsh plants, hydrograph charts rolled like scrolls, and a chalkboard waiting for pins. Your jacket hangs over a chair where the elbow has already been patched twice; the polymer bead bracelet on your wrist catches the light when you reach to pin the first chart. Your fingertips are smeared with salt and the faint green stain from a tasting, and the stain feels like proof: you've been living this work with your mouth as well as your head.

[Visual: Close-up of a hand pinning a fresh hydrograph chart; salt smears on the paper]
Narration
You pin a chart—tidal range marked in neat black ink, breaklines in faded red—and step back. The room calibrates itself to you: the low chatter of Asha as she annotates a slide; the camera on the shelf blinking like a little, patient eye; sunlight caught in a spray of water droplets hanging from an experimental planter. Your tongue tastes the kelp again, briny and bright, and for a second you let the small, absurd pleasure of it anchor you.

Asha: "Okay—those annotations from the last stress-test make a good point. If we present the terraces as both storm attenuation and a food source, people see it as less abstract."

Marin Solace: "And include maintenance wages up front. If it's not economic for locals to tend these systems, it's not a lasting solution." (You tap the board; the polymer beads clink.)

Asha: (She smiles, a quick, fierce thing.) "You always say that like it's a revolution." (She flips through a mock handout.) "Also—Raff sent drone edits. They're… gorgeous. He made the terraces look like painting."

[Sound: A soft chime from a laptop; a small video window pops open]
[Visual: Raff's face in a little square, jittery with energy; behind him, footage of sinuous, green terraces stitched along a shoreline]
Raff (over Skype): "Look at that—cinematic crop! People will click. I added captions: 'living shorelines, living livelihoods.' We can go viral with this if Jonah's footage syncs with tide lines."

Marin Solace: "Perfect. Keep it honest though—no puffery. The captions should say what we can measure and what we can't promise yet." (You rub the salt from your fingertips on your jeans; Asha nods.)

Raff (grinning): "Fine—no puff. But a little 'art from the air' caption won't kill us."

Narration
You watch the drone footage loop, the terraces folding into the bay like cloth. For a moment your chest loosens. The image is not just aesthetic; it translates months of muddy hours into an easily read language. You feel something like permission—an external echo of the conviction that's been growing inside you.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Taste another kelp preserve sample") -> Reaction: "You lift the jar, the brine stinging pleasantly at the rim of your tongue. It steadies you—small proofs of mouth and home—and you jot a line on the draft handout about 'local food co-benefits.' || Choice B ("Make a note instead") -> Reaction: "You close the jar and index the sample in the lab log instead, letting the idea of measurable data feel more urgent than the comfort. You add a crisp bullet: 'quantifiable food yield estimates.'"]

Asha: (She watches you, amused.) "You always go back and forth with snacks. It's a leadership trait, apparently." (She tucks a pen behind her ear.) "Ben sent a message with permit notes. He's supportive but... careful. Says 'we'll need clarity on long-term stewardship language'—his tone is the exact shade of bureaucratic caution."

Marin Solace: "So 'co-management' and 'adaptive maintenance'—bold on the page, humble in tone." (You trace a sentence with the back of your pen. Every word feels like a lever.) "We can't promise miracles. We can promise governance structures that make fixing mistakes fast and communal."

Asha: "Exactly. People forgive pragmatic failures when they're asked to help fix them. They don't forgive being talked at."

[Sound: A quiet notification; a message pings from Ben Rhee on your tablet]
[Visual: A text thread—Ben's careful lines appear; no legalese quoted, only the gist]
Narration
Ben's message is full of small, balancing acts—permits, oversight, fiscal prudence. You don't need the details to know the shape of it: there will be questions about liability, about funding windows, about who pays when mud shifts and the terraces need reinforcement. You think of Elder Mae's stories and how they carried an unspoken clause: anything built for tomorrow needs a hundred hands for upkeep.

Raff (leaning closer to the camera): "Also—Lydia's team is touring the levees tomorrow. PR push. We should expect them to frame the conversation as 'urgent' and 'technical.' We need to make human stories louder."

Marin Solace: "We make human stories louder by making them verifiable." (You tap a sticky note to the cardboard mockup.) "Include cost comparisons—long-term savings from ecosystem services. Include a map of who would be involved in upkeep. Make the language readable."

Asha: (softly) "And include the fishermen's voice. Jonah's maps—real local knowledge—will help."

[Sound: The workshop door swings; footsteps approach; a low laugh fills the room]
[Visual: Jonah at the threshold, wind-flattened hair with salt flecks; he tucks a small metal repair piece into a pocket-sized sketchbook and smiles like an apology and a hello]

Jonah: "You left this with me?" (He taps the sketchbook.) "Found it when I was sorting—thought you might need a spare."

Marin Solace: (You feel your chest clench—simple, immediate gratitude.) "Thanks. You didn't have to drop by." (You reach for the part and find warmth there, not just metal.) "How's the shoal mapping going?"

Jonah: (He leans on the workbench, boots thudding softly.) "Mapped a shift on Lowrock shoal—north of where you were thinking for the terrace pilot. It nudges the placement by maybe twenty meters. Could change the break pattern." (He flips open his sketchbook; small, tidy sketches of currents and annotated notes scatter like evidence.)

Marin Solace: "Twenty meters could be the difference between sediment deposition and scouring." (You take a breath, imagining the prototype in the water.) "Can you show me? Now?"

Jonah: (A pause—he's used to you asking for things urgently; he likes that you ask.) "I can. Or I can leave you the sketches and we go out together after the hearing. Your call."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Ask Jonah to show the map now") -> Reaction: "You pull a stool close and Jonah spreads the sketches. The two of you trace current lines with your finger, voices dropping to that careful, technical cadence you share. The map changes your plan in small, savable ways; your confidence rises—this is collaboration, not concession. || Choice B ("Ask him to leave it for after the hearing") -> Reaction: "You thank him and tuck the sketchbook under a lamp. The map waits like a promise. You imagine the two of you on the water after the meeting, hands cold, eyes bright—the moment steadies you in a different way, preserving this as something to claim together later."]

Jonah: (If you chose now) "See here—if we nudge the first terrace slightly south, it'll trap more sediment and help the new eelgrass beds take. You'll need a longer root stock, but the placement's better for fish passage." (He looks up; his smile has slackened into something honest.) "You ever worry we try to make people less afraid of the sea by putting concrete in front of them?"

Marin Solace: "All the time." (You laugh, small and raw.) "That's why this needs to be—" (You search for the word that won't sound like idealism or cowardice.) "—tangible. We can't talk people out of fear, but we can give them something they help care for. That's a different kind of courage."

Jonah: "Good answer." (He tosses you a pencil; the gesture is casual, trusted.) "Also—I can vouch for the charters to come talk. Real fishermen on the record go further than charts sometimes."

Marin Solace: "I'll make room in the presentation for you—short speaking slot, practical stuff. No speeches. Exact, local knowledge. And Raff's footage will show, visually, what you're describing." (You find your mouth forming the plan into steps. There's a rhythm to it now.)

Asha: "We should rehearse the handout language. People will read it on the way out. If the handout sounds like it was written by engineers only, they'll toss it."

Marin Solace: "Okay—tone: anchored, honest numbers, and a clear ask. Come to the meeting with two concrete actions you can support in your neighborhood." (You write it down, the letters firm.) "No jargon."

[Sound: The misting rig cycles; a soft hiss like breath]
Narration
You stay late. Evening slides in through the high windows and paints the room a brassier color. You fit a last tray into the misting rig and watch water bead on the leaves. The room smells of damp soil and coffee and that persistent, briny tang that has started to mean something like home. Each action—pinning a chart, adding a price estimate, saving Jonah's sketch for presentation—feels like a stitch in a cloth that might hold a storm.

Marin Solace: (You imagine the meeting room, the microphone, the panel table. For once, your confidence doesn't look like bluster; it feels like an accumulation of careful, visible work.) "If we get the community to see how this reduces long-term costs—financial and ecological—then Ben has the leverage to negotiate from a better place."

Asha: (She caps a marker and exhales.) "You sound like a policy report and also empathetic. It's a strange combination, but it might just work."

Narration
You trace the route where you'll present the prototypes on a battered floor map: entrance, demo table, the muraled floodwall, the chairs where Elder Mae will sit and where Jonah will stand. Your handwriting gets steadier. You think, not for the first time, that applause from other people used to feel like a test. Tonight it feels like permission: a neighbor saying I've got your back.

[Visual: The Saltworks lights dim to a warm amber; the town outside begins to glow with lamplights]
[Sound: A distant church bell; the faint murmur of tide against wharf]
[Music: The piano lifts into a single sustaining, hopeful chord]

Narration
You take one last look at the chalkboard. The lines you've drawn are not guarantees; they're invitations—drafts for a public life built with other hands. The board hums with possibility, and you feel, sensibly and quietly, ready.

[Visual: Close-up on your hand resting on the map, bracelet beads reflecting the light]
Narration
You step back, the jacket over the chair like a silent promise to return tomorrow with the same hands and a better plan. The Saltworks seems to hold its breath with you—expectant, not anxious. Outside, the tide is a slow, certain rhythm. Inside, you have the people and the work aligned in a way that makes you believe the meeting could tilt the town toward something survivable and kind.

[Page-Turn]
Narration
There are practical things you haven't solved—permit language, precise funding lines, Lydia's looming, clinical PR—but for the first time in a long while the unsolved problems look like things you can negotiate rather than doom you. You turn the light off, feeling that exact, steady rise inside: a confidence built in collaboration, not in solitary heroism.

[LINEAR JUMP]
{
  "has_choice": false,
  "description": "",
  "options": [],
  "root_default_next_chapter": 3
}