[Scene: Havenpoint Boardwalk | Rainy Evening]
[Visual: Strings of yellow bulbs blurred by a fine rain; puddles on darkened planks mirror wavering lights]
[Sound: Low murmur of the crowd, rain patter, a distant gull cutting through]
[Music: Warm, hopeful strings with a steady pizzicato underpinning]

You taste salt and coffee at the back of your tongue—the small, steady fuel that has carried you here from the Saltworks. The satchel at your hip is heavier than it should be with printed handouts and Asha's little sample trays; the map tucked under your arm has its corners softened by folding and refolding. You press your palm to the rolled paper, feeling the ridges of ink and the soft give of a plan that has been argued into shape.

The boardwalk smells like wet wood and smoked fish and the faint tang of algae from the harbor. People have turned their hoods down against the drizzle so faces can be seen: Mae's stoic profile, a teenager with sea-spray hair and eyes glazed with worry, Mr. Quinlan from the piers squinting as if the horizon might give him an answer. The crowd is not a monolith; it is a register of wagers—fear crossed with investment and a hunger that looks a little like hope.

[Visual: You step onto the makeshift platform; a low podium, a microphone, hand-painted signs that read "OUR SHORE, OUR CHOICE"]
[Sound: Microphone feedback; the rustle of jackets]
[Music: A single, sustaining violin line brightens]

Ben Rhee stands to your left, his suit at once too formal and comfortingly familiar—salt-dark at the cuffs from a day spent moving through town. He taps the mic once, and the murmur drops into expectant silence.

Ben Rhee: "We’ll begin. Tonight's format: three short presentations, rebuttal, then public comment. Marin Solace will present first."

You inhale, clean and sharp. The map under your fingers is a small constellation of hope: dotted lines of terraces, hand-sketched marsh revetments, annotations from Asha and community volunteers. Your voice when it comes will be plain and technical and human—exactly what you've practiced.

[Visual: Asha near the front, hair in a messy bun, holding a tray of damp soil and salt-tolerant seedlings; Raff hovers with a tablet, fingers ready to cue footage]
[Sound: A soft, supportive clapping that feels like the first plank set in place]

Marin Solace: (You step forward; the microphone picks up the breath you were holding.) "Good evening. I’m Marin—born here, raised on these tides, and back because I couldn’t stand by when our shores started to change the way they did."

You lay out the plan in plain sentences—permeable terraces that will slow surges and trap sediment, marsh revetments to soften wave energy and seed habitat, local steward committees guaranteed a seat at the table—and you watch expressions shift as complexity becomes a picture. You use numbers sparingly, choosing instead to show what each measure does over a season, a year, five years. You fold in wages for maintenance, an adaptive clause for when things go wrong, and the accountability structure Asha drafted.

Marin Solace: "These are things we can build with our own hands, that give back to the bay, and that keep access to the water intact for people who need it for food and work."

Asha: (Leaning forward, her voice caught in enthusiasm) "Here—try this sample. The sediment panel holds for surge levels we tested last month. It’s not magic; it’s engineered biology."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Offer the sample to Jonah in the front row") -> Reaction: "You catch Jonah’s eye and push the tray slightly toward him; he accepts it with a short, surprised laugh and brings it forward for a closer look, fingers leaving a wet print on the edge." || Choice B ("Hold the tray and let Raff cue the footage") -> Reaction: "You nod at Raff; he taps his tablet and a short video of volunteers building a terrace plays on the pavilion screens, faces and hands moving in a rhythm that the crowd recognizes and leans toward."]

The applause that follows is not thunderous—this is Havenpoint, careful with its ovations—but it is real and clarifying: a set of people deciding, in a small way, that they can see themselves in this future. Raff's footage steals sympathetic glances; the camera lingers on Mae tying a knot, on a child wading through a newly planted marsh at low tide. You let the images do part of the talking.

Then Lydia arrives.

[Visual: From the bluff above, Lydia’s pavilion gleams like a clean promise: glass, matte steel, displays pulsing with surge models in cyan and coral]
[Sound: The hush of authority; footsteps on gravel]
[Music: A crisp, assertive instrumental motif underlines her entrance]

Her trenchcoat is immaculate despite the rain; her platinum bob is precise. She steps down onto the platform with the confidence of someone who has moved crises before—closing banks, securing backers, writing headlines.

Lydia: (To Ben, with an economy of smile) "Thank you, Councilor. I’ll be brief. The numbers are stark. A reinforced seawall—engineered to three meters—buys us immediate protection and investor confidence. It keeps commerce and property values stable while we execute relocation plans where necessary."

There is a hum of money in her voice, not unkind but relentless. She lays out a timeline—faster, larger, visible—and the models on her screen bloom in tidy graphs. Her words land like tiles: rapid, measurable, low ambiguity.

You feel the room recalibrate. Skepticism narrows into a pragmatic question on many faces: can we afford to wait on pilots? Will the docks flood in the interim? Lydia does not belittle the community; she gives a form to urgency.

Marin Solace: (You respond, because silence would read as assent.) "Urgency is real," you say. "But the question isn’t just speed—it's what we lose in that speed. A concrete wall can protect property, yes—but it can also sever the tidal plain that supports our fisheries and the cultural access to water. We can move faster than we think by scaling community pilots with conditional funding and independent oversight."

Lydia: (A slight lift of an eyebrow) "Marin, with respect—pilots are fine for testing. But when waves come, waiting for iterative consent is a luxury we might not have. Investors need assurances. We can fund relocation and fortification immediately."

Ben Rhee: "Let's hear some public input before rebuttals. We’ll take questions."

Crowd voices rise. A fisher asks about net access. A young parent worries about flood insurance. Mae speaks, voice thin but steady, about memory: of boats hauled higher and festivals lost to water. Jonah shifts in his seat; the rusted whistle at his throat catches the light as he drums his fingers on it.

Jonah: (From the front row, careful but loud enough to be heard) "We can't lose the water. My cousin’s nets are their rent. We need access—somehow."

Marin Solace: (You meet Jonah’s eyes; there is warmth there, and something like expectancy. You answer not just to him but through him.) "That’s the point. Access and protection can be designed together. Living shorelines do the work of the ecosystem, and they can be built to allow for docks to be retrofitted rather than removed."

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Invite Jonah to speak briefly about dock retrofits") -> Reaction: "You gesture toward him; Jonah stands, voice a little raw but steady, describing the small retrofits that would secure moorings while allowing the bay to breathe—people nod, seeing their own hands in his descriptions." || Choice B ("Keep the floor and pivot to technical specifics") -> Reaction: "You stay at the mic and walk the audience through a cross-section of a marsh revetment—roots and matting and stone—tying each element back to livelihoods and wages for maintenance. The crowd leans in, picturing their own work in the diagrams."]

Lydia presses her advantage with the smoothness of someone used to selling certainty.

Lydia: "We can guarantee no-flood scenarios for high-value corridors within months. The projected private funding covers the wall and essential pier reinforcements. It’s decisive."

Asha: (Cutting in, voice clear) "Decisive doesn't mean inclusive. We've run tests in comparable bays—nature-based solutions reduce long-term maintenance costs and increase fish yields. They also keep people working on the water."

Raff: (From the edge, voice carrying a bit of urgency) "And the footage—two towns have documented reduced surge damage after five years. We can link those studies, show the jobs created."

Dialogue turns into a series of short exchanges: Lydia citing timelines and capital flows; you and Asha pointing to adaptive management clauses and community oversight boards; Ben trying to keep the conversation from tipping into rancor, calling for order and clarity. The back-and-forth is granular and human: interruptions, a cough, Jonah's low laugh breaking tension, Raff's tablet lighting a tiny projector for a side-clip.

Ben Rhee: "We have three clear strategic paths on the table tonight. Council will take these into consideration, but first—Marin—can you state, for the record, what you are asking of the Council right now?"

You feel the crowd compress into a single hinge point. The map in your hands is both literal and symbolic: a folding of possibilities. You could anchor this town’s trajectory in grassroots pilots that privilege local stewardship, you could reach for a negotiated hybrid and accept compromise, or you could take Lydia's offer for immediate, large-scale protection.

Marin Solace: (Your voice steady, hope threading through it) "We are asking for conditional funding to launch community-led pilots—clear benchmarks, guaranteed oversight representation, wages for maintenance. We want time-bound phases that can show measurable protection while we build local capacity."

Lydia: (Pressed, not unkind) "Or—accept a hybrid: we pilot some living shorelines with targeted engineering where the risk is highest, sharing costs and oversight. It's a middle path that speeds protection."

Ben Rhee: (Turning to the crowd and to you both) "Or a third option: full-scale rapid seawall implementation led by Lydia's group, with immediate mobilization and investor capital."

The rain has softened to a sheet of silver; the bulbs above seem to brighten as if to answer. There is, in the pause that follows, a curious buoyancy—people are listening, not just to arguments, but to one another.

Your chest hums with the work you have done to get here. There is fear—there is always fear—but it sits companionably beside a clearer thing: the sense that choice can be made with care, not franticness. Eyes meet yours: Jonah's, warm and expectant; Asha's, fierce and tired; Mae's, weighing memory.

[Interactive Moment: Choice A ("Speak for pilots and call for community volunteers to step forward") -> Reaction: "You ask for hands—crowd members lift them slowly at first, then more confidently. Ben scribbles notes. Asha grins, the tired lines around her eyes softening like something that has found cause." || Choice B ("Propose the council consider a hybrid framework with measurable milestones") -> Reaction: "You suggest compromise language—benchmarks and oversight—but with firm deadlines. Ben nods slowly; Lydia's jaw tightens in calculation, then relaxes with the thought of shared credit."]

Ben Rhee: (He folds his hands, voice steady as a keel.) "Council will deliberate, but tonight we need direction. Marin, Lydia—thank you. We’ll open the floor to a final round of public comment and then—"

He pauses long enough that the air tightens into a decision hinge.

Ben Rhee: "—I need the presenters to clarify what they are asking the town to pursue tonight. Is it: community-led pilots with conditional funding and oversight; a negotiated hybrid plan; or immediate acceptance of Lydia's seawall plan for rapid protection?"

Your heartbeat is a steady drum in your ears. For a moment, everything narrows to the next word.

[Visual: Close-up on the map roll in your hand; bulbs reflected in its glossy ink]
[Sound: The crowd inhaling as one]
[Music: A gentle, rising swell that promises movement]

You are poised at the town’s logic hub—the place where values and pragmatics have to be made to meet. Jonah's fingers still drum on the whistle; your satchel is a weight you can hold or set down. The choice will shape seasons.

[DECISION POINT]
{
  "has_choice": true,
  "description": "Choose Havenpoint’s strategic path at the hearing—how to respond to Lydia and the council.",
  "options": [
    {
      "label": "Insist on community-led pilots and conditional funding",
      "target_chapter_id": 4,
      "target_chapter_index": 4,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Propose a negotiated hybrid plan: living shorelines plus targeted engineering",
      "target_chapter_id": 7,
      "target_chapter_index": 7,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    },
    {
      "label": "Accept Lydia’s rapid seawall plan for immediate protection",
      "target_chapter_id": 10,
      "target_chapter_index": 10,
      "target_chapter_title": null,
      "router_logic": "Personality focus"
    }
  ],
  "root_default_next_chapter": -1
}